232-3042
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
COMMISSIONERS:

Lina M. Khan, Chair
Rebecca Kelly Slaughter
Alvaro M. Bedoya
Melissa Holyoak
Andrew Ferguson

In the Matter of

DOCKET NO. C-4812

DONOTPAY, INC., a corporation.

COMPLAINT
The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that DoNotPay, Inc., a
corporation (“Respondent” or “DoNotPay”), has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade
Commission Act, and it appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public
interest, alleges:
1.
Respondent DoNotPay, Inc. (“DoNotPay”) is a Delaware corporation with its principal
office or place of business at 167-169 Great Portland Street, 5th Floor, London, W1W 5PF,
United Kingdom.
2.
Respondent transacts or has transacted business in San Francisco, California and
throughout the United States. Respondent has advertised, offered for sale, sold, and distributed to
U.S. consumers the DoNotPay Service (hereafter “the DoNotPay Service” or “the Service”) via
the donotpay.com website and the DoNotPay mobile application.
3.
The acts and practices of DoNotPay alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15
U.S.C. § 44.
Summary of the Case
4.
The DoNotPay Service is an online subscription service targeted to U.S. consumers
seeking assistance with a range of commercial issues and legal issues involving American civil
law. Respondent used the emergence of new technology like artificial intelligence (AI) as a
marketing tool, positioning the DoNotPay Service as a cutting-edge solution for producing legal
documents. Respondent described the Service as “the world’s first robot lawyer” and an “AI
1

lawyer” capable of performing legal services such as drafting “ironclad” demand letters,
contracts, complaints for small claims court, challenging speeding tickets, and appealing parking
tickets. Through a chatbot, subscribers would submit prompts or queries to an AI “robot lawyer”
that purportedly operated like a human lawyer, including by applying the relevant laws to
subscribers’ particular legal and factual situations; relying on legal expertise and knowledge to
avoid potential complications, such as statutes of limitations, compensation limits, and
jurisdiction, when generating legal demand letters or initiating cases in small claims court; and
detecting legal violations on subscribers’ business websites and providing advice about how to
fix them. In fact, the DoNotPay Service was not designed to operate like a human lawyer in these
respects.
The DoNotPay Service
5.
Respondent has offered a General Membership subscription for the DoNotPay Service
since 2019. Although the cost of a General Membership has fluctuated since at least 2020, at
times relevant to this Complaint, Respondent charged subscribers $36 every two months.
6.
Respondent has offered a Small Business Protection Plan since 2021. Although the cost
of the Small Business Protection Plan has fluctuated, at times relevant to this Complaint,
Respondent charged subscribers $49.99 per month.
7.
The DoNotPay Service has offered features designed to assist subscribers with consumer
issues, including obtaining college fee waivers, creating passport photos, changing mailing
addresses, claiming rebates, deleting accounts, donating plasma for cash, and finding discounts.
At times relevant to this Complaint, the Service also offered features designed to assist
subscribers with legal issues, including but not necessarily limited to, breach of contract demand
letters, defamation cease-and-desist letters, divorce settlement agreements, restraining orders,
insurance claims, releases of liability, revocable living trusts, lawsuits in small claims court,
challenging speeding tickets, and appealing parking tickets.
DoNotPay Advertising
8.
Through the Apple App Store, the Google Play Store, the website donotpay.com, and
social media accounts such as on X.com and TikTok, Respondent has disseminated or caused to
be disseminated advertisements for the DoNotPay Service that include the statements and
depictions in Exhibits A through L to this Complaint.

2

The “Robot Lawyer”
9.
Respondent’s advertisements called the DoNotPay Service the world’s first robot lawyer,
capable of suing anyone at the press of a button. Compl. Exhs. A through E.
From Exhibit A: www.donotpay.com (captured March 14, 2023)

From Exhibit B: www.donotpay.com (captured March 13, 2023)

3

From Exhibit C: Apple App Store (captured November 1, 2023)

4

From Exhibit D: Google Play Store (captured November 1, 2023)

From Exhibit E: DoNotPay TikTok posts (captured August 31, 2023)

#

5

10.
The donotpay.com website has prominently featured a quote that purports to come from
The Los Angeles Times newspaper and states, “What this robot lawyer can do is astonishingly
similar – if not more – to what human lawyers do.” Compl. Exh. F.
From Exhibit F: www.donotpay.com (captured April 6, 2023)

11.
In fact, the foregoing quote derives from a high-schooler’s opinion piece in the Los
Angeles Times’ High School Insider website, a user-generated content platform for young
people.

6

Law-Related Features
12.
The Chief Executive Officer for DoNotPay has claimed that the company’s goals were
“to be like the general counsel for the consumer,” and “to replace the $200-billion-dollar legal
industry with artificial intelligence.” See Compl. Exh. B (screen captures from videos posted on
donotpay.com, including an interview on The Daily Show).
13.
Respondent has claimed that the DoNotPay Service “fights companies and the
government across two hundred areas of the law.” See Compl. Exh. B (screen capture of an
interview with Bloomberg posted on donotpay.com). Respondent has promoted law-related
features for, among other issues, breach of contract, defamation demand letters, divorce
settlement agreements, restraining orders, insurance claims, releases of liability, revocable living
trusts, standardized legal documents, lawsuits in small claims court, speeding tickets, and
parking tickets. Compl. Exhs. A, E, G through J, and L.
14.
Respondent has warned consumers against “rush[ing] to iffy demand letter templates”
when a breach of contract occurs because “dealing with legal matters without proper knowledge
is not a good idea.” Compl. Exh. G. Respondent claimed that the Service’s breach of contract
demand letter feature would present “crucial” and “necessary information” and generate an
“ironclad” and “rock-solid demand letter tailored for [a consumer’s] case.” Id.
From Exhibit G: www.donotpay.com (captured May 4, 2023)

7

15.
In conjunction with the demand letter feature, Respondent has promoted the Service’s
ability to help consumers “take further legal action” by preparing all the necessary forms for a
complaint in small claims court and creating “a script with strong argumentation you can use
during the court hearing.” Id.
16.
DoNotPay has promoted a feature of the Service to address defamation of character.
Compl. Exh. H. Through the statements and depictions in Complaint Exhibit H, Respondent has
represented that the subscriber could tell a chatbot about allegedly defamatory statements and the
resulting harm, and then DoNotPay’s “AI lawyer” would “help [them] draw up a cease and desist
letter quickly and efficiently . . . with the most relevant state legislation regarding defamation.”
Id.
From Exhibit H: www.donotpay.com (captured March 20 and May 4, 2023)

8

9

17.
Respondent has promoted a feature of the Service that purportedly would enable
consumers to sue for assault in small claims court without a lawyer. Compl. Exh. I. Respondent
has made the following statements in connection with this feature:
A. “While it is possible to handle suing for assault on your own, it may not be the best
approach. In most cases, it is easier to have the expertise of an entity such as
DoNotPay on your side to avoid complications.” Id.
B. “Let DoNotPay help you alleviate the stress of filing a lawsuit in small claims court
on your own. Our professional team is available to answer your questions and help
you get the ball rolling.” Id.
From Exhibit I: www.donotpay.com (captured April 24, 2023)

10

11

18.
Respondent has advertised that the Service’s standardized legal documents feature would
enable consumers to generate, among other things, non-disclosure agreements, independent
contractor agreements, general business contracts, non-compete agreements, residential lease
agreements, prenuptial agreements, and custody agreements. Compl. Exh. J. DoNotPay has
promised that these documents would be appropriate and tailored for subscribers’ special
requirements. Id. Respondent’s advertisements have included the following statements and
depictions, among others, from the donotpay.com website:
From Exhibit J: www.donotpay.com/learn/legal-documents/ (captured May 4, 2023)

#
“Generate Perfectly Valid Legal Documents in No Time”

12

#
“We all come across some life or business activities that require legal
documents. Do you need to hire a lawyer every time you’re in one of those
situations? Luckily, no, because some apps can help you prepare everything on
your own without too much trouble. DoNotPay is the world’s first robot lawyer,
here to assist you in closing any significant business deals for which you need
official agreements.”
#
“DoNotPay has your best interests at heart. That’s why we’ve created our
Standardized Legal Documents tool that can generate various legal documents
to fulfill your needs. Here’s a non-exclusive list of legal documents DoNotPay
supplies for you: . . . Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) . . . Independent
Contractor Agreement . . . General Business Contract . . . Non-Compete
Agreement . . . Residential Lease Agreement . . . Prenuptial Agreement . . . [.]
These are some legal documents you’ll be able to generate with the help of
our vast legal document database.”
#
“Once you provide essential data regarding your upcoming deal or the issue
you’ve been dealing with, we’ll generate an appropriate legal document to meet
your special requirements.”
#
“Let DoNotPay Produce Legal Documents To Meet Your Needs”
#
“You can try to make an agreement by yourself by searching for legal
documents online, but it can be challenging. Creating a contract requires a
certain level of legal knowledge. That’s why your obvious choice would be to hire
a lawyer to prepare a suitable contract. As turning to a lawyer can be a pricey
option, DoNotPay can assist you in this matter. . . . Provide the necessary
details to the chatbot (names, addresses, and other relevant information) . . .
That’s all! DoNotPay will now generate a document tailored to your
particular requirements and business activities.”
19.
The Service elicited few facts from subscribers utilizing the law-related features
described in paragraphs 12 through 18, above. For example, if an assault victim selected the “Sue
Now” feature, the DoNotPay chatbot would have requested that the subscriber provide only a
“short phrase that detail[ed] the incident.” At the end of the chat session, the chatbot would have
asked the subscriber to input any additional questions or concerns. Any information the
13

subscriber might have provided, however, would have received the same irrelevant response
from the chatbot: “Thanks, [subscriber’s name]. Once you set your personal details, I won’t ask
you again. You can update them any time under the settings menu by selecting ‘Edit My
Profile’.” The Service then would have generated a half-page demand letter with a phrase-length
description of the incident, a monetary demand, and a warning that failure to settle could result in
a costly legal judgment.
20.
DoNotPay did not test whether the Service’s law-related features operated like a human
lawyer. DoNotPay has developed the Service based on technologies that included a natural
language processing model for recognizing statistical relationships between words, chatbot
software for conversing with users, and an Application Programming Interface (“API”) with
OpenAI’s ChatGPT. None of the Service’s technologies has been trained on a comprehensive
and current corpus of federal and state laws, regulations, and judicial decisions or on the
application of those laws to fact patterns. DoNotPay employees have not tested the quality and
accuracy of the legal documents and advice generated by most of the Service’s law-related
features. DoNotPay has not employed attorneys and has not retained attorneys, let alone
attorneys with the relevant legal expertise, to test the quality and accuracy of the Service’s lawrelated features.
21.
DoNotPay subscribers who used the law-related features have complained that the
Service did not ask them to submit information relevant to their breach of contract claims, failed
to consider important legal issues, and generated legal documents that were not fit for use.
Website Legal Diagnostics Feature
22.
DoNotPay has promoted a website diagnostic feature of the Service that purportedly
would check a consumer’s small business website for hundreds of federal and state law
violations based solely on the consumer’s email address. Compl. Exh. K. This feature
purportedly would detect legal violations that, if unaddressed, would potentially cost a consumer
$125,000 in legal fees. Id.
From Exhibit K: www.donotpay.com (captured April 28, 2023)

14

#

23.
DoNotPay’s website diagnostic tool did not, in fact, analyze a consumer’s small business
website for hundreds of federal and state law violations based solely on an email address.
Unavailability of Some Law-Related Features
24.
At times relevant to this Complaint, DoNotPay’s website advertised that a General
Membership included features that could protect a copyright and generate a customized ceaseand-desist letter for a defamation claim, non-compete agreement, and residential lease when
those features were not available.
State Bar of California’s Investigation of DoNotPay for the
Unauthorized Practice of Law
25.
On or about November 16, 2021, the Office of Chief Trial Counsel of the State Bar of
California (“the California Bar”) opened an investigation into the DoNotPay Service related to
allegations of engaging in the unauthorized practice of law.
26.
On or about January 21, 2022, the Chief Executive Officer for DoNotPay promised the
California Bar that DoNotPay would no longer represent that the DoNotPay Service was the
world’s first robot lawyer. Nevertheless, DoNotPay continued to make this representation.
Compl. Exhs. A through E, L.
27.
On June 15, 2023, the California Bar sent a cease-and-desist notice alleging the
DoNotPay Service amounted to engagement in the unauthorized practice of law. On the same
day, Respondent affirmed that it had removed: a) all mentions of “robot lawyer” from the
DoNotPay website and related social media; b) all products on the DoNotPay website that
allowed consumers to generate legal documents; and c) any mention of “sue anyone” from the
15

DoNotPay website. Notwithstanding these representations to the California Bar, the DoNotPay
website and social media account continued to promote the Service as the “World’s First Robot
Lawyer” and advertise “sue anyone” claims. Compl. Exhs. C, D, E.
Count I
False or Unsubstantiated Performance Claims
28.
In connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale, or sale of
subscriptions to the DoNotPay Service, Respondent represented, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, that the Service’s artificial intelligence and other technology operates like a
human lawyer, including by applying the relevant laws to subscribers’ particular legal and
factual situations; relying on legal expertise and knowledge to avoid potential complications,
such as statutes of limitations, compensation limits, and jurisdiction, when generating legal
demand letters or initiating cases in small claims court; and detecting legal violations on
subscribers’ business websites and providing advice about how to fix them.
29.
The representations set forth in Paragraph 28 are false or misleading or were not
substantiated at the time the representations were made.
Count II
False Claims
30.
In connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale, or sale of
subscriptions to the DoNotPay Service, Respondent represented, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, that:
A. based solely on a consumer’s email address, the Service’s artificial intelligence and
other technology can analyze a consumer’s small business website for hundreds of
federal and state law violations, determine that the website is in serious danger of
governmental enforcement action, and save the consumer hundreds of thousands of
dollars in potential legal fees; and
B. a General Membership subscription to the Service includes features that protect a
copyright and generate a customized cease-and-desist letter for a defamation claim,
non-compete agreement, and residential lease.
31.

In fact:
A. based solely on a consumer’s email address, the DoNotPay Service’s artificial
intelligence and other technology cannot analyze a consumer’s small business website
for hundreds of federal and state law violations, determine that the website is in
serious danger of governmental enforcement action, and save the consumer hundreds
of thousands of dollars in potential legal fees; and
B. at times relevant to this Complaint, a General Membership subscription to the Service
has not included features to protect a copyright and generate a customized cease-and
16

desist letter for a defamation claim, non-compete agreement, and residential lease.
Therefore, the representations set forth in Paragraph 30 are false or misleading.
Violations of Section 5
32.
The acts and practices of the Respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal
Trade Commission Act.
THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this 14th day of January, 2025, has
issued this Complaint against the Respondent.
By the Commission

April J. Tabor
Secretary
SEAL:

17

Exhibit A: www.donotpay.com
(excerpts captured March 14, 2023)

#

#

#

#

#

#

#

#

2

Exhibit B: www.donotpay.com/about/
(website and embedded video excerpts captured March 13, 2023)

\

#

World's First Robot

Lawyer
~19r1t corporutior1s tJcu: txucciucrucy cwd sue cmyonc ut tr1c press of CJ lJuttor1

ir'i!i Enter your email

~

2

Exhibit C: Apple App Store
(excerpts captured November 1, 2023)

Exhibit D: Google Play Store
(excerpt captured November 1, 2023)

Exhibit E: Posts on TikTok by username donotpaylaw
(captured August 31, 2023)

Exhibit F: www.donotpay.com
(excerpts captured April 6, 2023)

Exhibit G: www.donotpay.com/learn/demand-letter-template/
(excerpts captured May 4, 2023)

#

#

2

Exhibit H: www.donotpay.com/learn/defamation-of-character-lawsuit/
(excerpts captured March 20 and May 4, 2023)

#

What can I help you with?

r

\_

) ...........

oeromouo~

UVSIARCHSHO

~united airlines~

categories
Customer Service
Issues

a H1dde1, Money
• Tick.el Disputes

DE.FAMATION DEMAND LETTElll:S

--­

• rm OWO'd SSOO♦

HIM,youtooodwbdofarrobon,F«la

(!) ~~:n\ggol

Defamation Demand
Letters

f") ~,;!;:~nt

Q lnve!ltment Tools
2 Tell us about your situation, including whether the statements were libel or
slander, listing the statements that were made, explaining why they are false or
misleading, and what consequences you have suffered as a result.

Are you a victim of unfair and false defamation? I
can help you write a demand letter to get the justice
and compensation you deserve. To get started, are
you a victim of libel, slander, or both? (Libel is
written defamation whi le slander is spoken or oral.)

........

3. Based on your location, DoNotPay will generate a formal demand letter on
your behalf with the most relevant state legislation regarding defamation.

Defamation Demand Letter
Created At Jun 15, 2021

Success!

Task Progress

Congrats! I've generated a defamation
demand letter on your behalf.
This task was completed on Jun 15,

P.I

View PDF

2021 at 10:00 AM

.±. Download file

Confirmation Number. 7524!19494048

That's it! All we need is a little information and your letter is ready to send.

2

Exhibit I: www.donotpay.com/learn/small-claims-court/
(excerpts captured April 24, 2023)

#

#

#

2

2. Enter the dollar amount you are seeking for compensation

I can generate demand letters, court filings and give
you a script to read in court. How much are you
owed?

$ 01

)0

3. Select whether you want to serve a demand letter or file a claim in court

I can file court filing forms for you. Would you like to
continue?

Conw,u•

Autoso\ring 9

$elect an OJ:ihOI\ to eon,lnue

3

4. Describe the reasons for the lawsuit and submit any applicable details,
includlng photo evidence

•
Do you have a photographic evidence that could
bolster your demand letter?

Yes

No

Autosalllng 8

That's It! DoNotPay will then generate a demand letter or court filing forms for you.
We'll even moil a copy of your demand letter to the individual or business you are
suing.

4

Exhibit J: www.donotpay.com/learn/legal-documents/
(excerpts captured May 4, 2023)

What Types of Legal Documents Do You Need?

he Best sotutior for Creating Lego Documents
onYourOWn

legal documents are agreements and contracts that protect your business and

The Best Contract Template at Your Disposal

personal interests. Depending on your endeavor, you can pick different legal

The Ch td Custody Agreernent Explained

documents to meet your needs and, at the same time, protect you from harm.

We understand how complicated and incomprehensible all that legal terminology

The Best Way To Make a Lease Agreement
How to Write a Contract-without a Lawyer

can be, but the documents must comply with laws and regulations.
OoNotpay has your best interests at heart That's why we've created our
Standardized Legal Documents tool that can generate various legal documents to

Legal Documents Deciphered: Guides, How
Tos, Drafts, and More

fulfill your needs.
Lego, r&mplutes.net Rs,iew: 1 11 Leg,t? Is It safe

Here's a non-exclusive list of legol documents OoNotPay supplies for you:

to use"
LawO~pot vs I ego Zoom· Whats Oit•erP.nt•
Wh ch IS Better"

Legal Contracta

Pu,pose

Non-Disclosure

A legally binding contract establishing a conftdential relationship

Agreement

between the cantroctual parties that agrae not to reveal any

(NOA)

sensitive information; also known as a confidenticd ogreem.nt

LegalZoorr vs Le9alSh1eld What Are +i,9
o,tterences?
We Read All Lego!Nature Reviews Heres Wl"lat
You Must Know
1s eforms Leg,t? Does 11 Store My Soc,ol ~ur,ty

NUMber?

Jodependoot

A written contract between two p<1111fl for Implementation of

Contractor

specific projects or sennc,os; an Individual or a company hires an

Agreement

independent contractor to imp..ment short- or medium-term

We Read Every eForm Review - Heres a
Summary fo, You
freew II com Reviews:. ls It egit or o Scom'
What rs Better lhon FormSw1ft? Is FormSwift losy

activltles

1oconcel?

emotsa1e

A legal document providing the specifics of o sale of products or

Lego zoom Loving Trust lev8\l/s; Pros & cons You

transfer of propertiea; the seller transfers the assets' rights to the

M1stknow

buyer

lowDPpot Review. ls It a leg t1mate 4>ervice and
Safe to t..,se?

General Business
Contract

A legal document outlining the terms and conditions of a busin"s

deal made by two parties

Recent Posts
Non:Compete

A contract betw. .n an emplayNancl an employer where the

Agreement

employee promises not to compete with the employer in any way

Hassle-Free

upon the employment termination; the employee must not

How to Remove My Case From The Internet

disclose proprietary sensitive Information at any time

tnstan~y

2

10

to Pay 'I

w1 H

1stc.n Water Bil s On1tne

#

#

#

3

#

4

Exhibit K: www.donotpay.com/web/website-diagnostics/. . . breach-of-contract/
(excerpts captured April 28, 2023)

#

#

#

#

2

Exhibit L: www.donotpay.com/learn/denver-parking-tickets/
(excerpts captured April 9, 2024)

#

#

2

#

#

3

