232-3092
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
COMMISSIONERS:

Andrew N. Ferguson, Chairman
Melissa Holyoak
Mark R. Meador

________________________________________________
In the Matter of
WORKADO, LLC, a limited liability company,
f/k/a CONTENT AT SCALE AI.

DOCKET NO. C-4822

________________________________________________
COMPLAINT
The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Workado, LLC, a limited
liability company, formerly known as Content At Scale AI (“Respondent”), has violated the
provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it appearing to the Commission that this
proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:
1.
Respondent Workado, LLC, formerly known as Content at Scale AI (“Content At
Scale”), is an Arizona limited liability company with its principal office or place of business at
15333 N. Pima Road, Suite 260, Scottsdale, Arizona 85260.
2.
Respondent advertises, offers for sale, and sells products and services to consumers for
creating marketing content, including the “AI Content Detector” (also referred to in
Respondent’s marketing materials and advertisements as the “AI Content Checker”). The AI
Content Detector uses artificial intelligence (“AI”) technology to determine whether written
content, including marketing content, is AI-generated. Starting sometime in 2024, Respondent
has also offered an AI image detector that purports to evaluate image pixels, smoothness, and
other AI image patterns to detect AI-generated images.
3.
The acts and practices of Respondent alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act.

Summary of the Case
4.
Generative AI technology like ChatGPT, available to anyone with access to the Internet,
can now create content, such as school essays, news articles, and advertising copy, that sounds
and looks as if it was created by a human being. In response, businesses and institutions that
require authentic human works have turned to companies that offer tools to detect AI-generated
content. The consequences of these tools’ assessments can be severe – such as a student wrongly
accused of cheating or a journalist’s article rejected for publication.
5.
Targeting primarily advertisers, marketers, students, and other written content creators,
Respondent markets and sells a monthly subscription to use its AI Content Detector. Respondent
claims that its AI Content Detector will predict with 98.3% accuracy whether text was generated
using AI technology such as ChatGPT, GPT4, Claude, Bard, or another generative AI
technology. Respondent further claims its AI Content Detector was trained on a vast amount of
material, including blog posts and Wikipedia entries. In fact, the AI model Respondent uses for
its AI Content Detector was trained on abstracts of scholarly articles. Respondent did not create,
train, or fine tune the AI model used in its AI Content Detector, nor has it tested whether the AI
Content Detector would achieve the same accuracy rate for marketing and other plain language
text that Respondent’s users typically submit. Respondent relied on test results published on the
Internet by the AI model’s independent developers. However, those test results show that when
evaluating a mix of human-created and AI-generated content, the AI model correctly
distinguished AI content from human content at a substantially lower rate than 98.3%. As a
result, Respondent’s 98% accuracy claim for the AI Content Detector is unsubstantiated and
deceptive.
The AI Content Detector Performance Claims
6.
Respondent offers and sells products and services to help marketers and advertisers create
and refine written marketing content using AI technology. Respondent advertises that the AI
Content Detector will enable marketers and others who use AI-generated content to determine
which sentences in their text read as AI-generated or “robotic,” permitting them to re-write text
to read more like human-created text.
7.
Since at least November 2022, Respondent’s AI Content Detector has been available for
consumers to submit their written content on Respondent’s website at
https://contentatscale.ai/ai-content-detector and at https://brandwell.ai/ai-content-detector for free
on a limited basis, limiting both the number of times users can submit content and limiting text
length. Beginning in September 2023 and continuing until August 2024, Respondent added a
$49 per month paid subscription option for the AI Content Detector on its website. The
subscription option permits consumers to use the AI Content Detector on an unlimited basis with
other premium features, such as suggested rewrites of content flagged as AI-generated.
8.
When consumers submit their written content to the AI Content Detector, it returns their
text with portions of it highlighted in red, orange, or green on a sentence-by-sentence basis
indicating whether the text is likely AI-generated. When consumers hover the cursor over text
highlighted in red, it states, “This reads very robotic and therefore has a higher chance of being
AI generated.” Hovering the cursor over the orange highlighted text results in the statement,
2

“You’ll need to be less robotic sounding by changing sentence structure and using different word
choices.” Green highlighted text indicates that the text does not read as AI-generated.
9.
Respondent disseminates or caused to be disseminated advertisements for the AI Content
Detector on its website and through GoogleAds and YouTube videos. Since at least November
2022 until on or about June 21, 2024, advertisements on Respondent’s website, including but not
necessarily limited to the attached Exhibit A, contained the following statements:
A.

Use our AI Detector (now with 98% accuracy) to see if your text is human or AI
generated from ChatGPT, GPT4, Claude, & Bard. Our AI checker is one of the
most trusted and goes deeper than a generic AI detector. If your writing is AI
detected, it may negatively affect how search engines rank content, professors
grade essays, and even readers’ opinion. (Exhibit A, www.contentatscale.ai,
(Oct. 3, 2023)).

B.

Our AI checker now achieves higher levels of accuracy (98.3%). (Id.).

C.

Our AI Detector can predict with 98.3% accuracy whether your content is human
or AI-generated. It checks for traces of AI in written text from sources like
ChatGPT, Claude, Bard, GPT-4, and more. (Id.).

D.

Trained on blog posts, Wikipedia, essays, and more. This AI Checker looks for
patterns that indicate AI-written text (such as repetitive words, lack of natural
flow, and generic tone), forecasts probable word choices, and analyzes sentence
structure and other characteristics for 98% accuracy. (Id.).

E.

The AI Detector, boasting a 98% accuracy rate, discerns whether your text is
likely human or AI-generated, including from sources like ChatGPT, GPT4,
Claude, and Bard. Our AI Checker is one of the most trusted in the industry. Be
aware: AI-detected writing can influence search engine rankings, academic
grading, and reader perceptions. The AI Detector, now with a pro version, can
transform AI text into undetectable AI content! (Exhibit A,
www.contentatscale.ai, (Apr. 22, 2024)).

10.
Respondent did not build, train, or fine tune the AI model behind its AI Content Detector.
The AI model behind Respondent’s AI Content Detector is publicly available on the Internet on
the website https://huggingface.co/andreas122001/roberta-academic-detector. The developers of
this publicly available model named it the RoBERTa-academic-detector (“AI Model”). The
developers of the AI Model were students in Norway who developed it for an undergraduate
thesis to detect machine-generated academic text and then made it available as an open-source
AI model.
11.
The developers of the AI Model trained it to evaluate content using a large dataset of
academic text, which consisted of an equal distribution of human-written research abstracts and
research abstracts generated by the AI program ChatGPT. The developers did not fine tune the
AI Model using any non-academic content, such as Wikipedia entries or blog posts. The
3

developers also did not use other AI programs, such as Bard, Claude, or GPT-4, to generate
content for training and fine tuning the AI Model.
12.
The developers tested the AI Model using large datasets. They did not include data from
the datasets on which the AI Model was trained. Because the AI Model classifies text into one
of two categories – AI-generated or not – “accuracy” reflects the number of correctly classified
items compared to the total number of items classified. The developers’ tested the AI Model on
academic text; non-academic text; and a mixture of the two, and they posted the results publicly
on the Internet.
13.
Respondent promoted the AI Content Detector for primarily detecting AI-generated
content in marketing and other plain-language text. This text is different from the academic text
the AI Model was trained to evaluate. Further, although the AI Content Detector was trained on
only ChatGPT, Respondent promoted the AI Content Detector for content generated by other AI
technologies, including Bard, Claude, and GPT-4.
14.
Respondent did not test the AI Content Detector to account for these different conditions
of use. Instead, Respondent relied solely on the publicly available testing results for the AI
Model’s evaluation of academic content, to claim an accuracy rate of 98.3%. However, the
developers’ best result for the AI Model’s accuracy when evaluating a mix of human-created and
AI-generated non-academic content was 74.5%. The developers’ testing data also showed that
the AI Model struggled to identify AI-generated content as AI-generated when evaluating nonacademic content, correctly detecting AI-generated text merely 53.2% of the time.
15.
Based on these measurements, the AI Content Detector is far less accurate than 98.3%
and is likely accurate around half the time in identifying non-academic, AI-generated content.
Thus, even if a user relied on the AI Content Detector only to evaluate whether their AIgenerated marketing content and copywriting would be detected as AI-generated, the AI Content
Detector would do barely better than a coin toss.
Count I
False or Unsubstantiated Performance Claim
16.
In connection with the advertising, promotion, offering for sale, or sale of the AI Content
Detector, Respondent has represented, directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, that the
AI Content Detector will predict with a 98% accuracy rate whether text is human generated or
AI-generated, including but not limited to, text generated using ChatGPT, GPT4, Claude, Bard,
and other AI technologies.
17.
The representation set forth in Paragraph 16 is false or misleading, or was not
substantiated at the time the representation was made.

4

Violation of Section 5 of the FTC Act
18.
The acts and practices of Respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or
deceptive acts or practices, in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal
Trade Commission Act.
THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this 21st day of August, 2025, has
issued this Complaint against Respondent.
By the Commission.

April J. Tabor
Secretary
SEAL:

5

COMPLAINT EXHIBIT A
A. From www.contentatscale.ai (captured 10-3-23):

Use our Al Detector (now with 98% accuracy) t o see if your text is human or A l generated
from ChatGPT, GPT4, Claude, & Ba rd. Our A l checker is one of the most trusted and goes
deeper t han a gene ric Al cont ent detector. If you r writing is Al detected. it may negatively
affect how search eng ines rank cont ent. professors grade essays, and even read ers' opinion.
You can th en use our paraphrasing too l to fix it!

B. From www.contentatscale.ai (captured 10-3-23):
IN W: All n w gradu,g for our Al D tector mo
cont nt. Our Al chl?cker now achie
thie s.coring
t

ed off mor GPT-4, Bird and Cta de

s h"gh@r l Vffi of accurac

98.3%) . W@ hav &imp '

d

g iv ~a an ove all prababilit:y af it bem~ wnl'len by a uman. A s.core of %

eans I is 99% Li

at

was reateci by Al Also new 1s our huma -le'llel p.araphras n

C. From www.contentatscale.ai (captured 10-3-23):

How Does Our Al Detector Work?
Our Al Detector can predict wit h 98.3% accuracy whether your content is huma n or Al - generat ed. It checks
for t races of A l in written te>ct: from sources like ChatGPT, Claude, Ba rd, GPT- 4, and more.
How? By looking for pattern s that an~ consistent wit h most bot-written text, including:
• Lack of nat ural f low
• Repet itive wo rding
• Generic tone
• Probability in word choices
• Sentence structu re
How does it know t he difference between human and Al writing patterns? Our det ector was t rained on a
vast amount of material -

blog post s, essays, W ikipedia ent ries. articles, and more con t ent across multiple

LLMs (large language models).
In fact , it's so good, it wi ll even f lag human -written t ext as Al if it sounds robotic. (Let's face it not all of us
are grea t writers. In t his case. the Al Detector will help you write mo re naturally, with better readability!)

6

D. From www.contentatscale.ai (captured 10-3-23):

98% Accurate Al
Checker
Trained on online blogs, w1kipedia,
essays, and more. Our Al checker
looks for patterns that i ndicate Al written text (such as repetitive
words, lack of natural flow, and
generic tone), forecasts probable
word choices, and analyzes
sentence structure and other
characteristics for 98% accuracy.

E. From www.contentatscale.ai (captured 04-22-24):

T e Al Detector, boast ing a 98% accuracy ate, discerns whet her you r te is
hum
or A l-generated, including from sources Like ChatGPT, GPT , Claude,
and Bard. Ou A l Checker is one o he mos t usted in the indus ry. Be aware:
A - detected writing c n influe11ce searc engine ra ki gs, academ·c g ading,
and reader perceptions. he Al Detec or, now with a pro ve sion ca
ransfor A text in o undet ctable Al content!

7

