                         Federal Communications Commission            DA 24-790 

                                   Before the 
                         Federal Communications Commission 
                              Washington, D.C. 20554 
 
 In the Matter of                        )        
                                         )        
 Lingo Telecom, LLC                      )       File No.:  EB-TCD-24-00036425 
                                         )       NAL/Acct. No.:  202432170004 
                                         )       FRN:  0035440734 
                                         ) 
                                          

                                    ORDER 
 
Adopted:  August 21, 2024                                 Released:  August 21, 2024 
  
 By the Chief, Enforcement Bureau: 
  
       1.    The Enforcement Bureau (Bureau) of the Federal Communications Commission 
 (Commission) has entered into a Consent Decree to resolve its investigation into the apparent violations 
 of Lingo Telecom, LLC (Lingo Telecom or Company) of section 64.6301(a) of the Commission’s rules1 
 in connection with Secure Telephone Identity Revisited and Signature-based Handling of Asserted 
 Information Using toKENs (STIR/SHAKEN) attestations.  To resolve this matter, Lingo Telecom agrees 
 to implement a robust compliance plan and pay a $1,000,000 civil penalty.  
       2.    The STIR/SHAKEN framework allows for the authentication and verification of caller 
 identification (ID) information and is a vital tool designed to give consumers more confidence that caller 
 ID information is accurate.  The last two decades have seen a proliferation in the misuse of spoofing 
 technology by malicious actors as a means of evading liability for illegal robocalls and other abusive 
 communications.  Accordingly, restoring the reliability of caller ID information is a top consumer 
 protection priority for the Commission.  In recent years, the Commission has undertaken multiple 
 proceedings to ensure rapid adoption of the technology required to bring STIR/SHAKEN to 
 telecommunications networks across the country.2  The framework uses three attestation levels that 
 indicate the level of the signing provider’s validation of the caller ID information.  False or incorrect 
 attestations undermine years of regulatory and industry efforts to enable caller ID authentication, and 
 diminish the integrity of the STIR/SHAKEN framework.  This Consent Decree furthers those consumer 
 protection objectives. 
       3.    On January 21, 2024, two days before the New Hampshire Democratic primary election 
 (Primary Election), potential voters in the state received thousands of spoofed robocalls carrying a 
 deepfake generative artificial intelligence (AI) voice message purporting to be from the president of the 

                          
 1 47 CFR § 64.6301(a). 
 2 See, e.g., Call Authentication Trust Anchor, Implementation of TRACED Act Section 6(a) – Knowledge of 
Customers by Entities with Access to Numbering Resources, WC Docket Nos. 17-97 and 20-67, Report and Order 
and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 35 FCC Rcd 3241 (2020); Call Authentication Trust Anchor, WC 
Docket No. 17-97, Second Report and Order, 36 FCC Rcd 1859 (2020); Advanced Methods to Target and Eliminate 
Unlawful Robocalls, Call Authentication Trust Anchor, CG Docket No. 17-59, WC Docket No. 17-97, Sixth Report 
and Order, Fifth Report and Order, Order on Reconsideration, Order, Seventh Further Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking, Fifth Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 37 FCC Rcd 6865 (2022); Call Authentication Trust 
Anchor, WC Docket No. 17-97, Sixth Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 38 FCC Rcd 
2573 (2023). 
  
                         Federal Communications Commission            DA 24-790 

 United States.3  The prerecorded AI message, using voice cloning technology, told recipients not to vote 
in the upcoming Primary Election.4  On May 23, 2024, following the Bureau’s extensive investigation 
and coordination with several law enforcement partners, the Commission adopted a Notice of Apparent 
Liability for Forfeiture (NAL) against Lingo Telecom proposing a $2,000,000 penalty.5 
       4.    After reviewing the terms of the Consent Decree and evaluating the facts before us, we 
 find that the public interest would be served by adopting the Consent Decree, terminating the referenced 
 investigation, and resolving the NAL. 
       5.    Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that, pursuant to sections 4(i) and 503(b) of the 
 Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §§ 154(i), 503(b), and the authority delegated by 
 sections 0.111 and 0.311 of the Commission’s rules, 47 CFR §§ 0.111, 0.311, the attached Consent 
 Decree IS ADOPTED and its terms incorporated by reference. 
       6.    IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the above-captioned matter IS TERMINATED and 
 the Notice of Apparent Liability for Forfeiture IS RESOLVED in accordance with the terms of the 
 attached Consent Decree. 
       7.    IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that a copy of this Order and Consent Decree shall be 
 sent by first class mail and certified mail, return receipt requested to Lingo Telecom, LLC, 9330 LBJ 
 Freeway, Suite 944 Dallas, TX 75243, and Kevin G. Rupy, Wiley Rein LLP, 2050 M Street NW 
 Washington, DC 20036, and Lauren M. Wilson and Todd D. Daubert, Dentons US LLP, at 1900 K Street 
 NW, Washington, DC 20006. 
        

                                     FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 
  
  
  
  
                                     Loyaan A. Egal  
                                     Chief  
                                     Enforcement Bureau 
  


                          
 3 Lingo Telecom LLC, Notice of Apparent Liability for Forfeiture, FCC 24-60, 2024 WL 2828369, at *4, para. 9 
 (May 23, 2024). 
 4 Id.  
 5 Id. at *11, para. 29. 
                                       2 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 

                                       Before the 
                           Federal Communications Commission 
                                 Washington, D.C. 20554 
 
 In the Matter of                           )          
                                            )          
 Lingo Telecom, LLC                         )         File No.:  EB-TCD-24-00036425 
                                            )         NAL/Acct. No.:  202432170004 
                                            )         FRN:  0035440734 
                                            ) 
                                            ) 
                                             
                                  CONSENT DECREE 
                                            
       1.    The Enforcement Bureau of the Federal Communications Commission and Lingo 
Telecom, LLC (Lingo Telecom or Company) by their authorized representatives, hereby enter into this 
Consent Decree for the purpose of terminating the Enforcement Bureau’s investigation into whether 
Lingo Telecom violated section 64.6301(a) of the Commission’s Rules in connection with incorrect 
Secure Telephone Identity Revisited and Signature-based Handling of Asserted information using 
toKENs (STIR/SHAKEN) attestations.  To resolve this matter, Lingo Telecom agrees to implement a 
Compliance Plan and pay a $1,000,000 civil penalty. 
   I.     DEFINITIONS 
           
       2.    For the purposes of this Consent Decree, the following definitions shall apply: 
             (a) “Act” means the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.1 
             (b) “Adopting Order” means an order of the Bureau adopting the terms of this Consent 
                 Decree without change, addition, deletion, or modification.   
             (c) “Bureau” means the Enforcement Bureau of the Federal Communications 
                 Commission. 
             (d) “Commission” and “FCC” mean the Federal Communications Commission and all 
                 of its bureaus and offices. 
             (e) “Communications Laws” means collectively, the Act, the Commission’s rules, and 
                 the published and promulgated orders and decisions of the Commission to which 
                 Lingo Telecom is subject by virtue of its business activities, including but not 
                 limited to the STIR/SHAKEN rules. 
             (f) “Compliance Plan” means the compliance obligations, program, and procedures 
                 described in this Consent Decree at paragraph 17. 
             (g) “Covered Employees” means all employees and agents of Lingo Telecom who 
                 perform, supervise, oversee, or manage the performance of, duties that relate to 
                 Lingo Telecom’s responsibilities under the Communications Laws, including the 
                 STIR/SHAKEN rules. 
             (h) “Effective Date” means the date by which both the Bureau and Lingo Telecom have 
                 signed the Consent Decree and the Bureau has released an Adopting Order. 
             (i) “Investigation” means the investigation commenced by the Bureau in EB-TCD-24-
                 00036425 regarding whether Lingo Telecom violated STIR/SHAKEN rules. 

                           
1 47 U.S.C. § 151 et seq. 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

             (j) “Lingo Telecom” or “Company” means Lingo Telecom, LLC and its affiliates, 
                 subsidiaries, predecessors-in-interest, and successors-in-interest. 
             (k) “NAL” means the Notice of Apparent Liability for Forfeiture issued to Lingo 
                 Telecom and released on May 28, 2024 proposing a two million dollar ($2,000,000) 
                 forfeiture for apparent violations of section 64.6301(a) of the Commission’s rules. 
             (l) “Operating Procedures” means the standard internal operating procedures and 
                 compliance policies established by Lingo Telecom to implement the Compliance 
                 Plan. 
             (m) “Parties” means Lingo Telecom and the Bureau, each of which is a “Party.” 
             (n) “Rules” means the Commission’s regulations found in Title 47 of the Code of 
                 Federal Regulations. 
             (o) “STIR/SHAKEN Rules” means section 64.6301(a) of the Commission’s rules and 
                 other Communications Laws related to STIR/SHAKEN obligations.   
   II.    BACKGROUND 
           
       3.    STIR/SHAKEN.  The Pallone-Thune Telephone Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement 
and Deterrence Act (TRACED Act) and the Commission’s implementing rules codified at section 
64.6301(a) required voice service providers to implement the STIR/SHAKEN authentication framework 
on their Internet protocol (IP) networks by June 30, 2021,2 subject to certain extensions and exemptions.3  
The STIR/SHAKEN framework helps protect consumers from illegal spoofed calls by enabling 
authenticated caller ID information to travel securely with the call itself through the entire IP-enabled call 
path.4  The Commission’s Rules define the term “STIR/SHAKEN authentication framework” to mean the 
“secure telephone identity revisited and signature-based handling of asserted information using tokens 
standards.”5  Specifically, the Commission requires compliance with three technical standards developed 
jointly by the Internet Engineering Task Force and the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry 
Solutions (ATIS) for implementation of STIR/SHAKEN, which are identified in the Commission’s First 
Call Authentication Order:  ATIS-1000074, ATIS-1000080, and ATIS-1000084.6  For voice service 
providers, “[c]ompliance with the most current versions of these three standards as of March 31, 2020, 
including any errata as of that date or earlier, represents the minimum requirement to satisfy [the] rules.”7 

                            
2 See Pub. L. No. 116-105, § 4, 133 Stat. 3274, 3276 (2019) (TRACED Act); 47 CFR § 64.6301(a) (requiring 
STIR/SHAKEN implementation by voice service providers). 
3 See 47 CFR §§ 64.6304, 64.6306.  None of these were relevant to Lingo Telecom. 
4 Call Authentication Trust Anchor, WC Docket No. 17-97, Sixth Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking, FCC 23-18, 38 FCC Rcd 2573, 2575, para. 4 (2023) (Sixth Call Authentication Order). 
5 47 CFR § 64.6300(m) (emphasis added); see also TRACED Act § 4(a)(1) (defining “STIR/SHAKEN 
authentication framework” to mean “the [STIR/SHAKEN] standards proposed by the information and 
communications technology industry.”). 
6 See Call Authentication Trust Anchor, Implementation of TRACED Act Section 6(a) – Knowledge of Customers by 
Entities with Access to Numbering Resources, WC Docket Nos. 17-97 and 20-67, Report and Order and Further 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 35 FCC Rcd 3241, 3258-59, para. 36 (2020) (First Call Authentication Order); see 
also Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions, Signature-based Handling of Asserted information using 
toKENs (SHAKEN), ATIS-10000074-E19E (2019) (ATIS-1000074); Errata to Signature-based Handling of 
Asserted information using toKENs (SHAKEN): Governance Model and Certificate Management, ATIS-1000080-
E19 (2019); Errata to Technical Report on Operational and Management Considerations for SHAKEN STI 
Certification Authorities and Policy Administrators, ATIS-1000084-E19 (2019). 
7 See First Call Authentication Order, 35 FCC Rcd at 3258-59, para. 36 (emphasis added); see also Sixth Call 
Authentication Order, 38 FCC Rcd at 2585, para. 21. 
                                           2 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

       4.    Of particular relevance in the NAL is ATIS-1000074, which describes the three 
attestation levels that a provider can apply to a call.8  An “A” attestation or “Full Attestation” means that 
the signing provider:  (i) “is responsible for the origination of the call onto the IP-based service provider 
voice network;” (ii) “has a direct authenticated relationship with the customer and can identify the 
customer;” and (iii) “has established a verified association with the telephone number used for the call.”9 
A “B” attestation or “Partial Attestation” means that the provider can meet the first two criteria of the A-
level attestation but the provider “has NOT established a verified association with the telephone number 
being used for the call.”10  Finally, a “C” attestation or “Gateway Attestation” means that the signing 
provider “has no relationship with the initiator of the call (e.g., international gateways).”11  Thus, the 
attestation level assigned by a voice service provider signifies “what it knows about the identity of the 
calling party,” and therefore how much trust downstream providers can ascribe to the caller ID number.12   
       5.    Lingo Telecom Investigation.  Lingo Telecom is a Texas Limited Liability Company.13  It 
is a subsidiary of Lingo Management, LLC.14  Lingo Telecom provides “IP-based Cloud voice and data 
along with other unified communications technologies.”15   
       6.    On January 21, 2024, two days before the Democratic New Hampshire presidential 
primary election, potential New Hampshire voters received 9,581 calls16 carrying a prerecorded and 
generative AI deepfake message that encouraged potential voters to abstain from voting in the primary 
election.17  All but the last sentence of which was spoken in a fake voice that was used to create the 
impression that President Joseph Biden created the message.18   
      7.     The calls were placed using inaccurate, or “spoofed,” caller ID information.19  The 
number used as the caller ID for the calls was associated with an unknowing and uninvolved local 
political operative.20  The Bureau carried out an Investigation in coordination with the New Hampshire 
Department of Justice Office of the Attorney General, the bipartisan Anti-Robocall Multistate Litigation 
Task Force, the U.S. Department of Justice, and USTelecom’s Industry Traceback Group.  The 
Investigation, with the cooperation of Lingo Telecom, determined that Lingo Telecom was the originating 


                            
8 ATIS-1000074 at 9-10. 
9 Id. at 9. 
10 Id. 
11 Id. at 10. 
12 Call Authentication Trust Anchor, WC Docket No. 17-97, Second Report and Order, 36 FCC Rcd 1859, 1863, 
para. 10 (2020). 
13 Matrix Telecom, LLC, Certificate of Conversion, 802357352, Tex. Sec’y of State (Dec. 28, 2015). 
14 Lingo Management, LLC Robocall Mitigation Plan v4.2024 (on file at EB-TCD-24-00036425). 
15 Lingo Telecom, LLC dba Impact Telecom Robocall Mitigation Plan v1.2023 (on file at EB-TCD-24-00036425). 
16 Subpoena Response of Life Corp. (Feb. 7, 2024) (on file in EB-TCD-24-00036425), at Response to Request for 
Information (RFI) No. 1. 
17 Lingo Telecom LLC, Notice of Apparent Liability for Forfeiture, FCC 24-60, 2024 WL 2828369, at *4, para. 9 
(May 23, 2024) (Lingo Telecom NAL). 
18 Id.  
19 Id. at *4, para. 10.  
20 Id. 
                                           3 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

provider (i.e., the first voice service provider in the call path) for a number of these calls.21  Lingo 
Telecom identified Life Corporation as the party that transmitted the calls to the Company.22      
       8.    On February 6, 2024, the Bureau sent Lingo Telecom a cease-and-desist letter (CDL) 
demanding that it “effectively mitigate illegal traffic” and “implement effective measures to prevent new 
and renewing customers from using its network to originate illegal calls.”23  On March 13, 2024, and May 
9, 2024, the Bureau subpoenaed Lingo Telecom for additional information about the New Hampshire 
calls and Company STIR/SHAKEN attestation practices.24  Lingo Telecom produced evidence showing 
that Lingo Telecom completed 3,978 calls to potential New Hampshire voters on January 21, 2024, which 
the Company signed with A-Level attestations.25  Lingo Telecom explained that its policy was to assign 
A-level attestations to a customer’s traffic when the Company directly assigned Direct Inward Dialing 
(DID) numbers to a customer like Life Corporation.  If one of these customers, like Life Corporation, also 
purchased Company Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) trunks that permits the customer to use numbers 
assigned by other carriers, Lingo Telecom allowed them to “receive an A-level attestation for traffic 
associated with . . . non-Lingo provisioned telephone numbers if the customer certified that it ‘will 
identify its customer and has a verified association with the telephone number used for the call.’”26   
      9.     Lingo Telecom submitted evidence to the Bureau that Life Corporation had provided 
Lingo Telecom with a certification that Life Corporation would identify its customers and had verified 
that the telephone numbers used for all calls were associated with the customers.  Lingo Telecom 
concluded that Life Corporation could legitimately use the telephone number that appeared as the calling 
party of the New Hampshire calls27 based on:  (i) Life Corporation’s certification to Lingo Telecom that 
Life Corporation would identify its customers and had verified that the telephone numbers used for all 
calls were associated with the customers; (ii) the past Know-Your-Customer research that Lingo Telecom 
had performed on Life Corporation; and (iii) the 16-year history of Life Corporation’s traffic patterns as a 
customer of Lingo Telecom.28  Based on this conclusion, Lingo Telecom provided A-level attestations for 
the New Hampshire calls.29  Lingo Telecom took no additional steps beyond those recited above to 
independently ascertain whether the customers of Life Corporation could legitimately use the telephone 
number that appeared as the calling party for the New Hampshire presidential primary calls.  
      10.    On May 28, 2024, the Commission issued an NAL against Lingo Telecom proposing a 
penalty of $2,000,000 for apparent violations of section 64.6301(a) of the Commission’s Rules.30   


                           
21 See ITG Subpoena Response (Jan. 31, 2024) (on file in EB-TCD-24-00036425) (ITG Subpoena Response). 
22 Id. 
23 Letter from Loyaan A. Egal, Chief, FCC Enforcement Bureau, to Alex Valencia, Chief Compliance Officer, 
Lingo Telecom, LLC, 2024 WL 488250 (Feb. 6, 2024). 
24 Subpoena to Lingo Telecom, LLC (Mar. 13, 2024) (EB-TCD-24-00036425) (Lingo Subpoena). 
25 Lingo Subpoena Response at Lingo 05-000202 (Mar. 27, 2024) (on file at EB-TCD-24-00036425) (Lingo 
Subpoena Response) (reflecting call detail records).  
26 Id. at Response to RFI No. 2. 
27 See ATIS-1000074 § 5.2.4 (2022), Note 1 at 8. 
28 See Lingo Subpoena Response at Response to RFI Nos. 1-2. 
29 See id.  
30 Lingo Telecom NAL, supra note 17. 
                                           4 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

   III.   TERMS OF AGREEMENT 
 
       11.   Adopting Order.  The provisions of this Consent Decree shall be incorporated by the 
Bureau in an Adopting Order. 
       12.   Jurisdiction.  Lingo Telecom agrees that the Bureau has jurisdiction over it and the 
matters contained in this Consent Decree and has the authority to enter into and adopt this Consent 
Decree. 
       13.   Effective Date; Violations.  The Parties agree that this Consent Decree shall become 
effective on the Effective Date as defined herein.  As of the Effective Date, the Parties agree that this 
Consent Decree shall have the same force and effect as any other order of the Commission.  Any violation 
of the Adopting Order or of the terms of this Consent Decree, including the Compliance Plan, shall 
constitute a separate violation of a Commission order, entitling the Commission to exercise any rights and 
remedies attendant to the enforcement of a Commission order.  Additionally, if Lingo Telecom fails to 
comply with STIR/SHAKEN Rules or any term of the Compliance Plan, the Commission may extend the 
Termination Date by twelve (12) months for each instance of non-compliance. 
       14.   Termination of Investigation.  In express reliance on the covenants and representations 
in this Consent Decree and to avoid further expenditure of public resources, the Bureau agrees to 
terminate the Investigation.  In consideration for the termination of the Investigation, Lingo Telecom 
agrees to the terms, conditions, and procedures contained herein.  The Bureau further agrees that, in the 
absence of new material evidence, it will not use the facts developed in the Investigation through the 
Effective Date, or the existence of this Consent Decree, to institute any new proceeding on its own motion 
against Lingo Telecom concerning the matters that were the subject of the Investigation, or to set for 
hearing the question of Lingo Telecom’s basic qualifications to be a Commission licensee or hold 
Commission licenses or authorizations based on the matters that were the subject of the Investigation.31 
       15.   Admission.  Lingo Telecom admits for the purpose of this Consent Decree and for 
Commission civil enforcement purposes, and in express reliance on the provisions of paragraph 14 herein, 
that paragraphs 8 and 9 contain a true and accurate description of the facts underlying the Investigation.  
No other admissions are made by Lingo Telecom.  
       16.   Compliance Officer.  Within thirty (30) calendar days after the Effective Date, Lingo 
Telecom shall designate a senior corporate manager with the requisite corporate and organizational 
authority to serve as a Compliance Officer and to discharge the duties set forth below.  The person 
designated as the Compliance Officer shall be responsible for developing, implementing, and 
administering the Compliance Plan and ensuring that Lingo Telecom complies with the terms and 
conditions of the Compliance Plan and this Consent Decree.  In addition to the general knowledge of the 
Communications Laws necessary to discharge his or her duties under this Consent Decree, the 
Compliance Officer shall have specific knowledge of the STIR/SHAKEN Rules prior to assuming his/her 
duties. 
       17.   Compliance Plan.  For purposes of settling the matters set forth herein, Lingo Telecom 
agrees that it shall, within thirty (30) calendar days after the Effective Date, develop and implement a 
Compliance Plan designed to ensure future compliance with the Communications Laws and with the 
terms and conditions of this Consent Decree.  With respect to the STIR/SHAKEN Rules, Lingo Telecom 
will implement, at a minimum, the following procedures: 
             (a) Operating Procedures.  Within ninety (90) calendar days after the Effective Date, 
                 Lingo Telecom and all Covered Employees shall comply with the Operating 
                 Procedures set forth in Attachment 1 to help ensure Lingo Telecom’s compliance 
                 with the STIR/SHAKEN Rules.  Lingo Telecom shall also develop a Compliance 

                            
31 See 47 CFR § 1.93(b). 
                                           5 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

                 Checklist that describes the steps that a Covered Employee must follow to ensure 
                 compliance with the STIR/SHAKEN Rules.   
             (b) Compliance Manual.  Within thirty (30) calendar days after the Effective Date, the 
                 Compliance Officer shall develop and distribute a Compliance Manual to all 
                 Covered Employees.  The Compliance Manual shall explain the STIR/SHAKEN 
                 Rules and set forth the Operating Procedures that Covered Employees shall follow 
                 to help ensure Lingo Telecom’s compliance with the STIR/SHAKEN Rules.  Lingo 
                 Telecom shall periodically review and revise the Compliance Manual as necessary 
                 to ensure that the information set forth therein remains current and accurate.  Lingo 
                 Telecom shall distribute any revisions to the Compliance Manual promptly to all 
                 Covered Employees. 
             (c) Compliance Training Program.  Lingo Telecom shall establish and implement a 
                 Compliance Training Program on compliance with the STIR/SHAKEN Rules and 
                 the Operating Procedures.  As part of the Compliance Training Program, Covered 
                 Employees shall be advised of Lingo Telecom’s obligation to report any 
                 noncompliance with the STIR/SHAKEN Rules under paragraph 18 of this Consent 
                 Decree and shall be instructed on how to disclose noncompliance to the Compliance 
                 Officer.  All Covered Employees shall be trained pursuant to the Compliance 
                 Training Program within sixty (60) calendar days after the Effective Date, except 
                 that any person who becomes a Covered Employee at any time after the initial 
                 Compliance Training Program shall be trained within thirty (30) calendar days after 
                 the date such person becomes a Covered Employee.  Lingo Telecom shall repeat 
                 compliance training on an annual basis and shall periodically review and revise the 
                 Compliance Training Program as necessary to ensure that it remains current and 
                 complete and to enhance its effectiveness. 
      18.    Reporting Noncompliance.  Lingo Telecom shall report any noncompliance with the 
STIR/SHAKEN Rules and with the terms and conditions of this Consent Decree within fifteen (15) 
calendar days after discovery of such noncompliance.  Such reports shall include a detailed explanation 
of:  (i) each instance of noncompliance; (ii) the steps that Lingo Telecom has taken or will take to remedy 
such noncompliance; (iii) the schedule on which such remedial actions will be taken; and (iv) the steps 
that Lingo Telecom has taken or will take to prevent the recurrence of any such noncompliance.  All 
reports of noncompliance shall be submitted to Chief, Telecommunications Consumers Division, 
Enforcement Bureau, Federal Communications Commission, via EnforcementBureauTCD@fcc.gov. 
      19.    Compliance Reports.  Lingo Telecom shall file compliance reports with the 
Commission ninety (90) calendar days after the Effective Date, twelve (12) months after the Effective 
Date, and every twelve (12) months thereafter until the Termination Date.  
             (a) Each Compliance Report shall include a detailed description of Lingo Telecom’s 
                 efforts during the relevant period to comply with the terms and conditions of this 
                 Consent Decree and the STIR/SHAKEN Rules.  In addition, each Compliance 
                 Report shall include a certification by the Compliance Officer, as an agent of and on 
                 behalf of Lingo Telecom, stating that the Compliance Officer has personal 
                 knowledge that Lingo Telecom:  (i) has established and implemented the 
                 Compliance Plan; (ii) has complied with the Operating Procedures since the 
                 implementation of the Compliance Plan; (iii) has reported any instances of non-
                 compliance in conformance with paragraph 18 of this Consent Decree and the dates 
                 of any such reports; and (iv) is otherwise not aware of any instances of 
                 noncompliance with the terms and conditions of this Consent Decree, including the 
                 reporting obligations set forth in paragraph 18 of this Consent Decree. 
             (b) The Compliance Officer’s certification shall be accompanied by a statement 
                 explaining the basis for such certification and shall comply with section 1.16 of the 
                                           6 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

                 Rules and be subscribed to as true under penalty of perjury in substantially the form 
                 set forth therein.32 
             (c) If the Compliance Officer cannot provide the requisite certification, the Compliance 
                 Officer, as an agent of and on behalf of Lingo Telecom, shall provide the 
                 Commission with a detailed explanation of the reason(s) why and describe fully:  (i) 
                 each instance of noncompliance; (ii) the steps that Lingo Telecom has taken or will 
                 take to remedy such noncompliance, including the schedule on which proposed 
                 remedial actions will be taken; and (iii) the steps that Lingo Telecom has taken or 
                 will take to prevent the recurrence of any such noncompliance, including the 
                 schedule on which such preventive action will be taken. 
             (d) All Compliance Reports shall be submitted electronically to Chief, 
                 Telecommunications Consumers Division, Enforcement Bureau, Federal 
                 Communications Commission, via EnforcementBureauTCD@fcc.gov.  
      20.    Termination Date.  Unless stated otherwise, or extended as set forth in paragraph 13, the 
requirements set forth in paragraphs 16 through 19 of this Consent Decree shall expire thirty-six (36) 
months after the Effective Date.   
       21.   Section 208 Complaints; Subsequent Investigations.  Nothing in this Consent Decree 
shall prevent the Commission or its delegated authority from adjudicating complaints filed pursuant to 
section 208 of the Act33 against Lingo Telecom or its affiliates for alleged violations of the Act, or for any 
other type of alleged misconduct, regardless of when such misconduct took place.  The Commission’s 
adjudication of any such complaint will be based solely on the record developed in that proceeding.  
Except as expressly provided in this Consent Decree, this Consent Decree shall not prevent the 
Commission from investigating new evidence of noncompliance by Lingo Telecom with the 
Communications Laws.  
       22.   Civil Penalty.  Lingo Telecom will pay a civil penalty to the United States Treasury in 
the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000).  Such payment will be made in four (4) installments (each 
an Installment Payment).  The first Installment Payment in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) is due within thirty (30) calendar days of the Effective Date.  Thereafter, subsequent 
Installment Payments of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) will be due by the following 
deadlines:  (1) one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after the Effective Date; (2) two hundred seventy 
(270) calendar days after the Effective Date; and (3) three hundred sixty five (365) calendar days after the 
Effective Date.  Lingo Telecom acknowledges and agrees that upon execution of this Consent Decree, the 
Civil Penalty and each Installment Payment shall become a “Claim” or “Debt” as defined in 31 U.S.C. 
§ 3701(b)(1).34  Upon an Event of Default, as defined in paragraph 23, all procedures for collection as 
permitted by law may, at the Commission’s discretion, be initiated.  Lingo Telecom shall send electronic 
notification of payment to EnforcementBureauTCD@fcc.gov on the date said payment is made.  Payment 
of the Civil Penalty must be made by credit card using the Commission’s Registration System (CORES) 
at https://apps.fcc.gov/cores/userLogin.do, ACH (Automated Clearing House) debit from a bank account, 
or by wire transfer from a bank account.  The Commission no longer accepts Civil Penalty payments by 
check or money order.  Below are instructions that payors should follow based on the form of payment 
selected:35 


                           
32 Id. § 1.16. 
33 47 U.S.C. § 208. 
34 Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321, 1358 (Apr. 26, 1996). 
35 For questions regarding payment procedures, please contact the Financial Operations Group Help Desk by phone 
at 1-877-480-3201 (option #6). 
                                           7 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

     Payment by wire transfer must be made to ABA Number 021030004, receiving bank 
      TREAS/NYC, and Account Number 27000001.  In the OBI field, enter the FRN(s) captioned 
      above and the letters “FORF”.  In addition, a completed Form 15936 or printed CORES form37 
      must be faxed to the Federal Communications Commission at 202-418-2843 or e-mailed to 
      RROGWireFaxes@fcc.gov on the same business day the wire transfer is initiated.  Failure to 
      provide all required information in Form 159 or CORES may result in payment not being 
      recognized as having been received.  When completing FCC Form 159 or CORES, enter the 
      Account Number in block number 23A (call sign/other ID), enter the letters “FORF” in block 
      number 24A (payment type code), and enter in block number 11 the FRN(s) captioned above 
      (Payor FRN).38  For additional detail and wire transfer instructions, go to 
      https://www.fcc.gov/licensing-databases/fees/wire-transfer.  

     Payment by credit card must be made by using CORES at 
      https://apps.fcc.gov/cores/userLogin.do.  To pay by credit card, log-in using the FCC Username 
      associated to the FRN captioned above.  If payment must be split across FRNs, complete this 
      process for each FRN.  Next, select “Manage Existing FRNs | FRN Financial | Bills & Fees” from 
      the CORES Menu, then select FRN Financial and the view/make payments option next to the 
      FRN.  Select the “Open Bills” tab and find the bill number associated with the CD Acct. No.  The 
      bill number is the  CD Acct. No. with the first two digits excluded (e.g., CD 1912345678 would 
       be associated with FCC Bill Number 12345678).  After selecting the bill for payment, choose the 
       “Pay by Credit Card” option.  Please note that there is a $24,999.99 limit on credit card 
      transactions. 

     Payment by ACH must be made by using CORES at https://apps.fcc.gov/cores/userLogin.do.  To 
      pay by ACH, log in using the FCC Username associated to the FRN captioned above.  If payment 
      must be split across FRNs, complete this process for each FRN.  Next, select “Manage Existing 
      FRNs | FRN Financial | Bills & Fees” on the CORES Menu, then select FRN Financial and the 
      view/make payments option next to the FRN. Select the “Open Bills” tab and find the bill number 
      associated with the CD Acct. No.  The bill number is the CD Acct. No. with the first two digits 
      excluded (e.g., CD 1912345678 would be associated with FCC Bill Number 12345678).  Finally, 
      choose the “Pay from Bank Account” option.  Please contact the appropriate financial institution 
      to confirm the correct Routing Number and the correct account number from which payment will 
      be made and verify with that financial institution that the designated account has authorization to 
      accept ACH transactions. 
      23.    Event of Default.  Lingo Telecom agrees that an Event of Default shall occur upon the 
failure Lingo Telecom to pay the full amount of the Civil Penalty or any Installment Payment on or before 
the due date specified in this Consent Decree. 
       24.   Interest, Charges for Collection, and Acceleration of Maturity Date.  After an Event 
of Default has occurred under this Consent Decree, the then unpaid amount of the Civil Penalty or any 
Installment Payment shall accrue interest, computed using the U.S. Prime Rate in effect on the date of the 
Event of Default plus 4.75%, from the date of the Event of Default until payment in full.  Upon an Event 
of Default, the then unpaid amount of the Civil Penalty or Installment Payment together with interest, any 
penalties permitted and/or required by the law, including but not limited to 31 U.S.C. § 3717 and 
administrative charges, plus the costs of collection, litigation, and attorneys’ fees, shall become 
immediately due and payable, without notice, presentment, demand, protest, or notice of protest of any 
kind, all of which are waived by Lingo Telecom. 

                           
36 FCC Form 159 is accessible at https://www.fcc.gov/licensing-databases/fees/fcc-remittance-advice-form-159. 
37 Information completed using the Commission’s Registration System (CORES) does not require the submission of 
an FCC Form 159.  CORES is accessible at https://apps.fcc.gov/cores/userLogin.do. 
38 Instructions for completing the form may be obtained at http://www.fcc.gov/Forms/Form159/159.pdf.  
                                           8 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

       25.   Waivers.  As of the Effective Date, Lingo Telecom waives any and all rights it may have 
to seek administrative or judicial reconsideration, review, appeal or stay, or to otherwise challenge or 
contest the validity of this Consent Decree and the Adopting Order.  Lingo Telecom shall retain the right 
to challenge Commission interpretation of the Consent Decree or any terms contained herein.  If either 
Party (or the United States on behalf of the Commission) brings a judicial action to enforce the terms of 
the Consent Decree or the Adopting Order, neither Lingo Telecom nor the Commission shall contest the 
validity of the Consent Decree or the Adopting Order, and Lingo Telecom shall waive any statutory right 
to a trial de novo.  Lingo Telecom hereby agrees to waive any claims it may otherwise have under the 
Equal Access to Justice Act39 relating to the matters addressed in this Consent Decree. 
      26.    Severability.  The Parties agree that if any of the provisions of the Consent Decree shall 
be held unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such unenforceability shall not render 
unenforceable the entire Consent Decree, but rather the entire Consent Decree shall be construed as if not 
containing the particular unenforceable provision or provisions, and the rights and obligations of the 
Parties shall be construed and enforced accordingly. 
       27.   Invalidity.  In the event that this Consent Decree in its entirety is rendered invalid by any 
court of competent jurisdiction, it shall become null and void and may not be used in any manner in any 
legal proceeding. 
       28.   Subsequent Rule or Order.  The Parties agree that if any provision of the Consent 
Decree conflicts with any subsequent Rule or order adopted by the Commission (except an order 
specifically intended to revise the terms of this Consent Decree to which Lingo Telecom does not 
expressly consent) that provision will be superseded by such Rule or order. 
       29.   Successors and Assigns.  Lingo Telecom agrees that the provisions of this Consent 
Decree shall be binding on its successors, assigns, and transferees. 
       30.   Final Settlement.  The Parties agree and acknowledge that this Consent Decree shall 
constitute a final settlement between the Parties with respect to the Investigation. 
       31.   Modifications.  This Consent Decree cannot be modified without the advance written 
consent of both Parties. 
       32.   Paragraph Headings.  The headings of the paragraphs in this Consent Decree are 
inserted for convenience only and are not intended to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Consent 
Decree. 
       33.   Authorized Representative.  Each Party represents and warrants to the other that it has 
full power and authority to enter into this Consent Decree.  Each person signing this Consent Decree on 
behalf of a Party hereby represents that he or she is fully authorized by the Party to execute this Consent 
Decree and to bind the Party to its terms and conditions. 


                            
39 See 5 U.S.C. § 504; 47 CFR §§ 1.1501-1.1530. 
                                           9 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

      34.    Counterparts.  This Consent Decree may be signed in counterparts (including 
electronically or by facsimile).  Each counterpart, when executed and delivered, shall be an original, and 
all of the counterparts together shall constitute one and the same fully executed instrument. 
 
 
 
________________________________ 
Loyaan A. Egal 
Chief 
Enforcement Bureau 
 
 
 
________________________________ 
Date 
 
 
 
________________________________ 
Ananth Veluppillai 
President & Chief Executive Officer 
Lingo Telecom, LLC 
 
 
 
________________________________ 
Date 
 
  


                                          10 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

                     ATTACHMENT 1:  OPERATING PROCEDURES 
                                            
The following provisions are not a comprehensive robocall mitigation plan and are designed to 
supplement, rather than replace, existing caller ID authentication and robocall mitigation measures Lingo 
Telecom currently has in place or may implement in the future.  Compliance with these measures is not a 
defense to future violations of state or federal law or Commission Rules.     
   I.     DEFINITIONS   
      1.     For the purposes of the Operating Procedures, the following definitions shall apply, in 
addition to any definitions set forth in the Consent Decree.  
             (a) “Caller Identity” means the originating phone number included in call signaling 
                 used to identify the caller for call screening purposes. 
             (b) “Call” means a call originated on behalf of a calling party by Lingo Telecom. 
             (c) “SIP Trunking Product” means a single connection comprised of multiple 
                 communications channels that provides Voice over Internet Protocol connectivity 
                 between an on-premise phone system and the public switched telephone network.  
             (d) “Supporting Record” means any of the following:  (i) a primary document 
                 containing the information that Lingo Telecom is required by this Consent Decree to 
                 obtain (e.g., government record, government identification, lease, utility statement); 
                 (ii) a search result from a government website (e.g., the Delaware Division of 
                 Corporations); or (iii) a report from a private database that validates information 
                 about companies for the purpose of providing fraud detection, risk management, 
                 credit check, or similar services.  
   II.    TELEPHONE NUMBER VALIDATION 
       2.    Lingo Telecom may only apply an A-level attestation to a call if Lingo Telecom itself has 
provided the Caller Identity to the calling party associated with the Call.   
   III.   ENHANCED KNOW YOUR CUSTOMER (KYC) MEASURES FOR CUSTOMERS 
      3.     Lingo Telecom shall fully comply with 47 CFR § 64.1200(n)(4).  In addition, with 
respect to any customer who purchases a SIP Trunking Product from Lingo Telecom (Customer), Lingo 
Telecom shall implement at least the following measures to know its Customer.  
             (a) If the Customer is a partnership or corporate entity, Lingo Telecom shall obtain the 
                 following information about the Customer:  
                   i. Legal business name and Supporting Records confirming the same; 
                  ii. Place of formation and Supporting Records confirming the same;  
                 iii. Proof of good standing in the place of formation not older than six months 
                      prior to the date of the latest order by the Customer of a Lingo Telecom SIP 
                      Trunking Product;  
                  iv. U.S. federal Employer Identification Number or Business Registration Number 
                      (if applicable);  
                  v.  Physical business address and Supporting Records confirming the same; 
                  vi. Active telephone number and Supporting Records confirming the same;  
                 vii. Type of goods or services offered (e.g., marketing, education, political 
                      consulting), and verification of commercial presence reflecting same (e.g., 
                      website, social media, store front);  

                                          11 
                           Federal Communications Commission                 DA 24-790 
 

                viii. Name of authorized individual acting on behalf of the Customer; 
                  ix. Confirmation that the acting authorized individual purporting to act on behalf 
                      of the Customer has the authority to do so, e.g., letter of authority, board 
                      minutes, or contractual representation and warranty; and 
                  x.  Confirmation the Customer has not been the subject of an adverse final 
                      determination in an adjudicatory proceeding brought by either a private or 
                      government party, including any FCC order, court order, or other similar 
                      determination, for violating any state or federal laws or Commission Rules 
                      pertaining to robocalls. 
             (b) If the Customer is a natural person, Lingo Telecom shall obtain the following 
                 information about the Customer:  
                   i. Name and Supporting Record confirming the name; 
                  ii. Physical address and Supporting Record confirming the same; 
                 iii. Active telephone number and Supporting Records confirming the same;  
                  iv. Type of goods or services offered (e.g., marketing, education, political 
                      consulting), and verification of commercial presence reflecting same (e.g., 
                      website, social media, store front); and 
                  v.  Confirmation the Customer has not been the subject of an adverse final 
                      determination in an adjudicatory proceeding brought by either a private or 
                      government party, including any FCC order, court order, or other similar 
                      determination, for violating any state or federal laws or Commission Rules 
                      pertaining to robocalls.   
   IV.    ENHANCED KNOW YOUR CUSTOMER MEASURES FOR UPSTREAM 
          PROVIDERS   
       4.    Lingo Telecom shall fully comply with 47 CFR § 64.1200(n)(5).  In addition, prior to 
transmitting any call as a gateway or intermediary provider on behalf of any immediate upstream provider 
(Upstream Provider), Lingo Telecom shall obtain the following information: 
             (a) All information identified in Section III(3)(a);   
             (b) The Upstream Provider’s active Robocall Mitigation Database filing; 
             (c) Confirmation from the Industry Traceback Consortium that the Upstream Provider 
                 has not failed to timely respond to any traceback requests in the prior twelve (12) 
                 months; 
             (d) Confirmation that the Upstream Provider imposes contractual obligations on its 
                 customers or its own Upstream Providers to prohibit unlawful traffic; and 
             (e) Confirmation the Upstream Provider has mechanisms in place to ensure its clients, 
                 employees, and/or contractors comply with robocalling restrictions under state and 
                 federal laws and Commission Rules. 
   V.     PAYMENT RESTRICTIONS 
       5.    Lingo Telecom shall not accept payment in the form of cryptocurrency, gift cards, or cash 
to transmit or originate calls.   


                                          12 