BILLING CODE: 6750-01-P
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
16 CFR Part 461
RIN 3084-AB71
Trade Regulation Rule on Impersonation of Government and Businesses
AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission.
ACTION: Final rule.
SUMMARY: This final rule prohibits the impersonation of government, businesses, and
their officials or agents in interstate commerce. This document contains the text of the
final rule and the rule’s Statement of Basis and Purpose (“SBP”), including a Regulatory
Analysis.
DATES: This rule is effective [INSERT DATE 30 DAYS AFTER DATE OF
PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Christopher E. Brown (202-3262825), Attorney, Division of Marketing Practices, Bureau of Consumer Protection,
Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
I. Background
A. Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
On December 23, 2021, the Federal Trade Commission (“Commission” or
“FTC”) published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (“ANPR”) to address
certain deceptive or unfair acts or practices of impersonation. 1 As part of the ANPR, the
0F

Commission requested comment on any issues or concerns relevant or appropriate to this

1

rulemaking to combat impersonation of governments, businesses, or their agents, and
whether and how to proceed with a notice of proposed rulemaking (“NPRM”). 2 The
1F

Commission took comments for 60 days, and received 164 comments from
representatives from a broad spectrum of businesses, trade associations, government or
law-enforcement organizations, and individual consumers, which are publicly available
on this rulemaking’s docket at https://www.regulations.gov/docket/FTC-20210077/comments. Commenters generally expressed support for the Commission’s
proceeding with the rulemaking. They also voiced deep concerns about the prevalence
and harmfulness of both government and business impersonation. No commenter
expressed the view that the Commission should not commence the rulemaking.
Commenters also offered suggestions for the Commission’s consideration in drafting the
proposed rule and other recommendations in furtherance of the proposed rulemaking.
B. Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
Based on an extensive review of the comments received in response to the ANPR,
the Commission’s own history of enforcement, and other considerations that occurred
after the ANPR’s publication, 3 the Commission published the NPRM on October 17,
2F

2022. 4 In the NPRM, the Commission stated it has reason to believe impersonation of
3F

government, businesses, and their officials or agents is prevalent. 5 The Commission
4F

identified no disputed issues of material fact based on the comment record; explained its
considerations in developing the proposed rule; solicited additional public comment
thereon, including posing specific questions designed to assist the public in submitting
comment; and provided interested parties the opportunity to request to present their

2

position orally at an informal hearing. 6 Finally, the NPRM set out the Commission’s
5F

proposed rule.
In response to the NPRM, the Commission received 78 comments from entities
and individuals interested in the proposed rule, discussed in Section III. 7 Although some
6F

raised concerns and recommended specific modifications or additions to the
Commission’s proposal, the majority generally supported the rule proposed in the
NPRM. Two commenters timely submitted requests for interested parties to make an oral
statement at an informal hearing. 8
7F

C. Notice of Informal Public Hearing
On March 30, 2023, the Commission published an Initial Notice of Informal
Hearing (“Notice of Hearing”). 9 The Notice designated the Commission’s Chief
8F

Administrative Law Judge, D. Michael Chappell, to serve as the presiding officer of the
informal hearing and stated that any member of the public wishing to speak at the
informal hearing or make a documentary submission to be placed on the public
rulemaking record (or both) should submit a comment on or before April 14, 2023. 10
9F

On May 4, 2023, Chief Judge Chappell presided over the informal hearing using
video conferencing, which enabled the public to watch live from the Commission’s
website, https://www.ftc.gov. Because there were no disputed issues of material fact to
resolve, the informal hearing included no cross examination or rebuttal submissions, and
the presiding officer made no recommended decision. The informal hearing included oral
statements from 14 interested parties. 11 The majority of commenters who presented oral
1 0F

statements at the informal hearing or filed documentary submissions generally expressed
strong support for the Commission’s proposed rule. 12 Several commenters, however, also
1 1F

3

expressed concern that the proposed rule language does not explain the circumstances
under which the Commission would apply proposed § 461.4, which would prohibit
providing the means and instrumentalities to commit violations of government and
business impersonation. Some suggested alternative language imposing a scienter
requirement to narrow the scope of this provision, discussed in Section III.D.
In crafting the final rule, the Commission has carefully considered the comments
received in response to the NPRM and on the rulemaking record as a whole, which
includes the oral statements and documentary submissions in response to the Notice of
Hearing. The final rule contains some changes from the proposed rule. These
modifications, discussed in detail in Section III, are based upon input from commenters
and careful consideration of relevant law. Section III also discusses commenters’
recommendations that the Commission declined to adopt, along with the Commission’s
reasons for rejecting them. Accordingly, the Commission adopts the proposed rule with
limited modifications as discussed below. The rule will take effect [INSERT DATE 30
DAYS AFTER DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].
II. The Legal Standard for Promulgating the Rule
The Commission is promulgating 16 CFR Part 461 pursuant to section 18 of the
FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. 57a, the Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”), and Part 1, subpart
B of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 13 This authority permits the Commission to
1 2F

promulgate, modify, and repeal trade regulation rules that define with specificity acts or
practices that are unfair or deceptive in or affecting commerce within the meaning of
section 5(a)(1) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. 45(a)(1).

4

The Commission’s Rules of Practice further provide that if the Commission
determines to promulgate a rule, it will adopt a SBP, which must address three factors:
(1) The prevalence of the acts or practices addressed by the rule; (2) the manner and
context in which the acts or practices are unfair or deceptive; and (3) the economic effect
of the rule, taking into account the effect on small businesses and consumers. 14 In this
13 F

section of the preamble, the Commission summarizes its findings regarding each of these
factors.
A. Prevalence of Acts or Practices Addressed by the Rule
In its ANPR, the Commission cited public data from the Consumer Sentinel
Network database and described its enforcement record, demonstrating government and
business impersonation scams are not only highly prevalent but increasingly harmful. 15
1 4F

In the NPRM, the Commission also took notice of additional indications of prevalence
that came after the ANPR’s publication. 16 Specifically, the NPRM cited data from a
15 F

broad spectrum of commenters (businesses, trade associations, and government or lawenforcement organizations) regarding the prevalence of government and business
impersonation scams, which echoed the Commission’s findings that these schemes are
among the most common deceptive or unfair practices affecting U.S. consumers and
businesses and continue to be a significant source of consumer injury. 17
16 F

B. Manner and Context in Which the Acts or Practices Are Deceptive or Unfair
A representation, omission, or practice is deceptive if it is material and likely to
mislead a consumer acting reasonably under the circumstances. 18 The most frequent
1 7F

allegations in the Commission’s enforcement actions involving government and business
impersonation pertain to defendants tricking consumers to pay money or disclose

5

personal information by making, expressly or by implication, statements that
misrepresent the defendants’ identity. 19 Nearly as frequent are allegations of
18F

misrepresentations concerning defendants’ affiliation with, endorsement or approval by,
or other association with a government or business. The Commission has further found
false threats of severe consequences and promises of benefits are additional deceptive
tactics deployed by government and business impersonators. In the Commission’s
experience, such claims regarding identity, affiliation, or endorsement are material to
consumers making their decision to trust impersonators. The numerous government and
business impersonation complaints consumers submit to the Commission each year, as
well as comments submitted in connection with this rulemaking proceeding, consistently
reference these same concerns. Accordingly, the specific practices described in the
preamble to the proposed rule reflect the type of conduct most commonly associated with
deceptive and unfair practices pertaining to government and business impersonation. 20
19 F

C. The Economic Effect of the Rule
As part of the rulemaking proceeding, the Commission solicited comment and
data (both qualitative and quantitative) on the economic impact of the proposed rule and
its costs and benefits. 21 In issuing the final rule, the Commission has carefully considered
2 0F

the comments received and the costs and benefits of each provision, as discussed in more
detail below in Section VI. The record demonstrates the most significant anticipated
benefit of the final rule is the Commission’s ability to obtain monetary relief. This is
particularly critical because that ability was curtailed by the U.S. Supreme Court’s
decision in AMG Cap. Mgmt., LLC v. FTC, which holds that equitable monetary relief,
including consumer redress, is not available under section 13(b) of the FTC Act. 22
2 1F

6

Further, obtaining monetary relief based on violations of the final rule under section
19(b) of the FTC Act will be significantly faster than obtaining such relief under section
19(a)(2) without a rule violation. 23 By enabling the Commission to obtain monetary relief
22F

more efficiently, the final rule would also reduce the expenditure of Commission
resources. 24 As an additional benefit, the rule enables the Commission to obtain civil
2 3F

penalties against violators. 25 The final rule also provides a benefit to businesses through
24 F

increased deterrence of business impersonators, which reduces businesses’ expenditure of
resources associated with monitoring for and addressing impersonation. 26 Moreover, as
25 F

the record and the Commission’s law enforcement experience demonstrate, the final rule
is unlikely to impose costs on any honest business, and may increase deterrence of
impersonation scams, which would benefit consumers through a reduction in their total
financial losses from these schemes. 27
26 F

III. Response to Comments
The Commission received 78 comments in response to the NPRM from a diverse
group of individuals, industry groups and trade associations, consumer organizations, and
government agencies. 28 The Commission received 28 comments in response to the
27 F

Notice of Hearing, including oral presentations from 14 commenters. 29 Commenters
2 8F

generally supported the proposed rule, recognizing the Commission’s authority to protect
consumers from the increasing number of government and business impersonation frauds
targeting consumers.
In the NPRM, the Commission invited comment on any issues or concerns the
public believes are relevant or appropriate to the Commission’s consideration of the
proposed rule. 30 The NPRM also posed eight specific questions for the public. 31 Some of
29 F

3 0F

7

these questions relate to the Paperwork Reduction Act (“PRA”) and Regulatory
Flexibility Act (‘‘RFA’’), and are addressed in Sections V and VI, respectively. 32 The
31 F

other questions, along with common issues or concerns relevant to the Commission’s
consideration of the proposed rule outside of the specific questions, are addressed in this
section of the preamble.
A. Finalizing the Proposed Rule as a Final Rule
In Question 1 of the NPRM, the Commission asked whether it should finalize the
proposed rule as a final rule, and how, if at all, it should change the proposed rule in
promulgating the final rule. 33 The majority of commenters did not express a clear view
32 F

regarding whether the Commission should adopt the proposed rule as final. Many of
these commenters, however, did share their experience regarding the prevalence and
harmfulness of various kinds of government and business impersonation frauds. 34 Some
33 F

of these commenters complained more generally about various non-impersonation
scams. 35 The majority of commenters that addressed Question 1 of the NPRM were
3 4F

substantially supportive of the proposed rule, but stopped short of urging the Commission
to finalize the text of the proposed rule without modification. These commenters typically
recommended either broadening or narrowing the scope or text of the rule in response to
other specific questions asked in the NPRM or relevant to the Commission’s
consideration of the proposed rule. 36
35F

Six commenters explicitly addressed the Commission’s question regarding
finalizing the proposed rule as a final rule, and without recommending additional
modifications to the text of the proposed rule, urged the Commission to do so. 37 Some of
36 F

these commenters stated the proposed rule is in the public interest because it would allow

8

for civil penalties against government and business impersonators, provide redress for
victims of impersonation scams, and deter future bad acts. 38
37F

Several government agencies and trade associations explained how the proposed
rule would benefit them, their members, or the people they serve. The United States
Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) described its experience of agency
impersonation, and stated that reliance on the FTC’s enforcement capabilities through
such a rule would allow the USPTO to conserve and allocate its resources to different
enforcement efforts that impact the USPTO and its stakeholders. 39 Similarly, the Marine
38 F

Retailers Association of the Americas (“MRAA”), a trade association representing
marine retailers, argued the benefits associated with finalizing the proposed rule would
reduce the financial burden on businesses and improve trust among consumers. 40 The
3 9F

United States Copyright Office (“USCO”) expressed support for finalizing the proposed
rule, arguing that doing so would allow the Commission to move more quickly to put a
stop to impersonation scams. 41 The USPTO and the USCO explained they do not have
40F

law enforcement authority to remedy the harms resulting from bad actors impersonating
the agencies, and USCO argued the proposed rule would foster public trust in the
copyright system. 42 The Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association
41 F

(“CTIA”), a trade association for wireless service providers, argued in favor of finalizing
the proposed rule because its scope is “targeted and judicious,” and appropriately focused
on the bad actors that harm consumers. 43
4 2F

Somos, Inc., which manages registry databases for the telecommunications
industry, stated it “strongly supports the Commission’s proposed rules,” but suggested
the Commission explicitly clarify that spoofing a telephone number of a business or

9

government entity to aid in that impersonation violates the rule. 44 The Commission is not
43 F

persuaded that explicitly stating telephone spoofing, or any specific type of government
or business impersonation, constitutes a violation of the rule is necessary. 45 Moreover,
4 4F

the Telemarketing Sales Rule (“TSR”) already bars telemarketers from ‘‘failing to
transmit. . . the telephone number and . . . the name of the telemarketer to any caller
identification service in use by a recipient of a telemarketing call.’’ 46 By definition, a
4 5F

spoofed telephone number is not the number of the telemarketer, and the Commission can
rely on this prohibition to bring an enforcement action for violation of the TSR against a
telemarketer that uses a spoofed number.
The Commission also received several comments that identified the lack of access
to accurate information concerning domain name registrants (commonly known as
“WHOIS” data) as a significant impediment to combatting the use of domain names to
impersonate government and businesses. 47 These commenters expressed support for
4 6F

expanding the text or scope of the final rule to address this issue. 48 In particular, a few
47 F

commenters urged the Commission to issue a final rule that requires domain name
registrars to collect, verify, maintain, and disclose accurate WHOIS data to the FTC and
third-party victims on request for such information based on credible evidence of
impersonation fraud. 49 The Coalition for Online Accountability (“COA”), a group
48 F

advocating for online transparency and accountability, argued “[t]here is no justification
for the redaction of data of legal person registrants or the overwhelming denial of
reasonable access to personal WHOIS data for legitimate third-party interests….” 50 Both
49 F

the Messaging Malware Mobile Anti-Abuse Working Group (“M3AAWG”) and the
Anti-Phishing Working Group (“APWG”) also suggested the Commission encourage

10

Domain Name System (“DNS”) registries and registrars to engage in DNS mitigation and
frequently impersonated entities to participate as “trusted notifiers” to address
fraudulently registered domain names. 51
5 0F

The Commission declines to adopt commenters’ suggestion that the final rule
expressly reference in accompanying examples the use of domain names in
impersonation schemes. Rather, the Commission here repeats what it previously stated in
the NPRM and earlier in this SBP, that the following list of examples of conduct covered
by the prohibition on the impersonation of government and businesses was intended to be
illustrative, not exhaustive: (1) calling, messaging, or otherwise contacting an individual
or entity while posing as a government or an officer or agent or affiliate or endorsee
thereof, including by identifying a government or officer by name or by implication; (2)
sending physical mail through any carrier using addresses, government seals or
lookalikes, or other identifying insignia of a government or officer thereof; (3) creating a
website or other electronic service impersonating the name, government seal, or
identifying insignia of a government or officer thereof or using ‘‘.gov’’ or any lookalike,
such as ‘‘govusa.com’’; (4) creating or spoofing an email address using ‘‘.gov’’ or any
lookalike; (5) placing advertisements that pose as a government or officer thereof against
search queries for government services; (6) using a government seal on a building,
letterhead, website, email, vehicle, or other physical or digital place; (7) calling,
messaging, or otherwise contacting an individual or entity while posing as a business or
an officer or agent or affiliate or endorsee thereof, including by naming a business by
name or by implication, such as ‘‘card member services’’ or ‘‘the car dealership’’; (8)
sending physical mail through any carrier using addresses, seals, logos, or other

11

identifying insignia of a business or officer thereof; (9) creating a website or other
electronic service impersonating the name, logo, insignia, or mark of a business or a close
facsimile or keystroke error, such as ‘‘ntyimes.com,’’ ‘‘rnicrosoft.com,’’
‘‘microsoft.biz,’’ or‘‘carnegiehall.tixsales.com’’; (10) creating or spoofing an email
address that impersonates a business; (11) placing advertisements that pose as a business
or officer thereof against search queries for business services; and (12) using, without
authorization, a business’s mark on a building, letterhead, website, email, vehicle, or
other physical or digital place. 52 Accordingly, the Commission finds the final rule is
51 F

drafted with sufficient clarity and flexibility to address the unauthorized use of internet
identifiers, including but not limited to domain names.
Only one commenter suggested in response to Question 1 of the NPRM that the
proposed rule should not be finalized. 53 The Americans for Prosperity Foundation
52 F

(“AFPF”), a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan education organization, argued the Commission
should “abandon its Section 18 rulemaking ambitions, instead refocusing its efforts on
case-by-case enforcement actions in federal court in cases involving concrete harm to
consumers.” 54
53 F

The Commission disagrees with the AFPF’s suggestion that the section 18
rulemaking process is too difficult or unwieldy to address many of the unfair or deceptive
acts or practices prevalent in commerce. In 1975, Congress passed the Magnuson-Moss
Warranty—Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act laying out specific procedures
for the promulgation of “Trade Regulation Rules” to protect consumers in a dynamic and
changing economic landscape. 55 The Commission’s regulations at 16 CFR part 1, subpart
54 F

B, respect the underlying statutory requirements of section 18, which provide ample

12

transparency and opportunity for public participation in the promulgation of Trade
Regulation Rules. The Commission intends therefore to fulfill its mission to protect
against unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce and to provide
consumers and businesses with due process, clarity, and transparency while crafting the
rules to do so. Accordingly, the Commission rightfully responds to Congress’s grant of
authority by initiating this rulemaking.
The AFPF also expressed various criticisms specific to the language of the
proposed rule and recommended several suggested revisions discussed in greater detail in
Sections III.C and III.D below.
Following review of all comments and careful consideration of the relevant law,
the final rule issued by the Commission contains some minor changes from the proposed
rule, as discussed in Section III.
B. Relevant Evidence Regarding Provisions of the Proposed Rule, Prevalence, Impact
and Alternative Proposals
In the ANPR, the Commission asked specific questions about the prevalence of
impersonation fraud, and requested the data source commenters relied upon for
formulating their answer(s). 56 The ANPR also asked specific questions regarding how to
55 F

craft a proposed rule to maximize the benefits to consumers and minimize the costs to
businesses, and what alternatives to regulations the Commission should consider in
addressing impersonation frauds. 57 In Question 2 of the NPRM, the Commission posed
56 F

these same or nearly identical specific questions regarding each different provision of the
proposed rule. 58 Six commenters specifically addressed these questions. 59 Each of these
57 F

5 8F

commenters described various types of government and business impersonation scams

13

common to their own experience or industry in support of their view that such frauds are
highly prevalent. 60 For example, the Toy Association noted various business
5 9F

impersonation scams experienced by its members, including counterfeit or non-compliant
toys, falsified documents regarding endorsement and affiliation related to counterfeit
toys, false solicitation and phishing schemes collecting customer information, and
domain impersonation. 61 Similarly, the USPTO and USCO described several examples
60 F

of government impersonation scams involving the trademark and copyright registration
processes, respectively, and included illustrative examples as attachments with their
public comment. 62
61 F

Other commenters particularly concerned with online business impersonation
cited data from studies or reports regarding trends in these kinds of impersonation frauds,
and recent examples of phishing attacks against consumers through the impersonation of
recognized online companies in support of their arguments regarding prevalence. 63
62 F

A small number of commenters addressed the impact (including any benefits and costs)
on consumers, governments, and businesses, discussed in more detail in Section VI.
Only one commenter suggested an alternative proposal for the Commission’s
consideration. 64 Specifically, the M3AAWG recommended as an alternative to the means
6 3F

and instrumentalities provision in proposed § 461.4 that the Commission “identify best
practices or safe harbors to incentivize prompt mitigation efforts and sound verification
techniques” to address the use of domain names in business impersonation schemes. 65
6 4F

M3AAWG argued this alternative to regulation would avoid the risk of inadvertently
imposing “secondary or intermediary liability against legitimate businesses, technologies
or services” exploited by impersonators. 66
6 5F

14

Upon review of the comments received in response to Question 2 of the NPRM,
the Commission concludes such comments support its own findings that government and
business impersonation schemes are both prevalent and harmful. The Commission
declines at this time to adopt M3AAWG’s alternative proposal for § 461.4. As discussed
in Section III.D, the Commission is continuing to review comments and records relevant
to the means and instrumentalities provision in proposed § 461.4 to determine whether
additional action or protections are warranted and is requesting additional public
comment through a SNPRM, published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register.
C. Clarity of Prohibitions Against Impersonation of Government & Businesses
In Question 5 of the NPRM, the Commission solicited comment regarding
whether the proposed rule’s one-sentence prohibitions against impersonation of
government in § 461.2 and against impersonation of businesses in § 461.3 are clear and
unambiguous, and how, if at all, they should be improved. 67 The Commission received
6 6F

several comments that addressed this question directly 68 or indirectly. 69 Two
67 F

68 F

commenters considered the one-sentence prohibitions to be clear and unambiguous
and/or deferred to the Commission’s construction, but suggested certain additions or
modifications. 70 For example, the USCO suggested the Commission consider whether
69 F

the definition of “officer,” which covers representatives of both governments and
businesses, should be bifurcated into two separate and more specific terms to define
representatives of governments and businesses, respectively. 71 No other commenter
7 0F

suggested a revision to the definitions in proposed § 461.1. The USPTO suggested the
Commission broaden the exemplary “list of matter” used to impersonate a government to
specifically reference “logos.” 72 In support of this recommendation, the USPTO noted
7 1F

15

“the use of logos” was explicitly identified in the NPRM’s examples of unlawful conduct
that would be covered by the prohibition against business impersonation in proposed §
461.3, but not in the NPRM’s examples of unlawful conduct that would be covered by
the prohibition of government impersonation in proposed § 461.2. The USPTO further
asserted government agencies also “use logos in addition to official seals and insignia,”
and provided an illustrative example of impersonators misusing the USPTO’s logo. 73
72 F

Three commenters indicated the language of proposed §§ 461.2 and 461.3 was
vague or provided inadequate guidance, and warranted modification. 74 Some commenters
73 F

raised constitutional concerns based on the purported overbreadth of the one-sentence
prohibitions. 75 These commenters’ constitutional arguments addressed two primary
74F

considerations: (1) whether the proposed rule provides due process notice; 76 and (2)
7 5F

whether it encroaches upon free speech protected under the First Amendment. 77 The
76 F

AFPF stated the proposed rule is an “open-ended regulation,” arguing it “fails to provide
constitutionally adequate notice of required or prohibited conduct” and otherwise falls
short of section 18’s specificity requirements. 78 Other commenters wary of inadvertent
77 F

intrusions on protected speech asserted any final prohibition should exempt innocent
behavior such as parody 79 and non-commercial or otherwise legitimate speech. 80
78 F

79 F

In his documentary submission in response to the Notice of Informal Hearing,
William MacLeod echoed concerns he previously expressed in response to the NPRM
that the language in proposed §§ 461.2 and 461.3 “depart[s] from the standards of
deception that the Commission applies under Section 5.” 81 MacLeod noted that: “[i]ts
8 0F

terms do not include ‘deception’ or ‘fraud’ or critical elements of the FTC’s deception
policy statement.” 82 He raised additional concerns about “impersonations and affiliations
8 1F

16

[that] can be false, but also unbelievable.” 83 MacLeod argued that the prohibitions, as
82 F

written, are too broad and would proscribe non-deceptive acts or practices, such as
“fictional depictions” in television advertisements. 84
83 F

Raising First Amendment concerns, the AFPF similarly asserted that the proposed
rule’s “falsely pose as” language, “read literally,” would impose civil penalties on
“utterly innocuous conduct” and “would appear to make it unlawful for anyone to dress
up as an FTC Commissioner, politicians, or…a Microsoft executive and attend a
Halloween party.” 85 It also expressed concern that the proposed prohibitions did not
84 F

require “materiality,” “consumer harm,” or “connection to interstate commerce.” 86
8 5F

Several commenters suggested alternative language to cure what they perceived to be the
overbreadth of the prohibition provisions. For example, M3AAWG recommended that
the final rule adopt a definition of “impersonation” that mirrors the definition of
“criminal impersonation” in 18 U.S.C. Chapter 43. 87 M3AAWG asserted that such a
86 F

definition would narrow the scope of the rule to cover only those bad actors with “clear
intent and specific knowledge” of prohibited acts.
MacLeod proposed narrowing the focus of the final rule by adopting language
that specifies particular prohibited practices or the mens rea of its intended targets. 88 The
8 7F

AFPF agreed with MacLeod, and suggested that the Commission revise the proposed rule
to “explicitly incorporate Section 5’s statutory prohibition… [and] requirements set forth
in the Commission’s Deception Statement.” 89
8 8F

After analyzing and considering the comments, the Commission is persuaded that
the language of the final rule should adhere more closely to the language of section 5 of
the FTC Act to avoid any potential confusion about the scope of the rule. The

17

Commission believes that these revisions sufficiently address some commenters’
concerns that the language of the proposed rule put it in conflict with Due Process
requirements and the First Amendment.
The Commission emphasizes that it does not intend for the final rule to regulate
non-commercial speech. To adhere more closely to the language of section 5 of the FTC
Act and case law, the Commission has revised the final regulatory text to incorporate
relevant language from section 5. Specifically, the Commission has replaced “unlawful”
with “unfair or deceptive act or practice,” and added “materially” and “in or affecting
commerce” in §§ 461.2 and 461.3. These changes make it abundantly clear that the scope
of the final regulatory text is coterminous with the scope of the FTC’s authority under the
FTC Act and they clearly specify the misconduct prohibited by the final rule.
Accordingly, false impersonations or misrepresentations that are not material to a
commercial transaction, such as impersonation in purely artistic or recreational
costumery or impersonation in connection with political or other non-commercial speech,
are not covered by the final rule.
The Commission concludes that it is unnecessary to divide the definition of
“officer” into two separate terms as suggested by the USCO. Section 461.1 defines
“officer” to “include[] executives, officials, employees, and agents,” which the
Commission believes appropriately describes and covers both government and business
representatives.
As previously stated, the NPRM’s list of examples of prohibited conduct covered
by the rule is intended to be illustrative, not exhaustive, and therefore, the Commission
declines to adopt the USPTO’s suggestion that it enlarge that exemplary “list of matter.”

18

Rather, the Commission maintains that not including specific prohibitions in the
regulatory text provides it with sufficient flexibility to address the many types of “matter”
(including objects, items, logos, insignia, etc.) used to impersonate governments and
businesses alike, which are too numerous to list.
The Commission declines to adopt a definition of “impersonation” that reflects a
criminal regulatory scheme as proposed by M3AAWG. The FTC Act does not include a
mens rea requirement, and there is no evidence in the record that the imposition of such a
requirement is warranted. Furthermore, while intent is not required under the rule or the
FTC Act, in any action seeking civil penalties for violation of the rule, the Commission
will need to establish “actual knowledge or knowledge fairly implied on the basis of
objective circumstances that such act is unfair or deceptive and is prohibited by such
rule.” 90
89F

The Commission rejects the recommendation by both MacLeod and AFPF to
incorporate the FTC Deception Policy Statement into the final rule. Nevertheless, as
discussed earlier in this Section III.C, informed by MacLeod’s and AFPF’s comments,
the Commission has revised the regulatory text of §§ 461.2 and 461.3 to mirror the
language of section 5 of the FTC Act more closely. In particular, the reference to “unfair
or deceptive act or practice,” and the inclusion of materiality and interstate commerce
requirements should address commenters’ concerns that this rule might be read to cover
impersonation in connection with artistic costumery, parody, or other non-commercial
speech. 91 The Commission further notes that, by the terms of these sections, a court must
90F

find that the alleged defendant made an express or implied misrepresentation regarding
material information for §§ 461.2 and 461.3 to be violated. For an express or implied

19

misrepresentation regarding material information to be made in violation of the FTC Act
and this rule, there must be a representation that misleads consumers acting reasonably
under the circumstances regarding material information. Thus, while the Commission
rejects the recommendation by both MacLeod and AFPF to incorporate the FTC
Deception Policy Statement into the final rule, by incorporating the changes above, the
Commission has ensured that the final rule is consistent with the Deception Policy
Statement, is consistent with other relevant Commission rules, and provides further
specificity regarding the prohibited acts and practices under section 5 of the FTC Act.
D. Prohibition Against Providing Means and Instrumentalities
In Question 6 of the NPRM, the Commission asked whether the final rule should
contain the prohibition in proposed § 461.4 against providing the means and
instrumentalities for violations against government or business impersonation. The
Commission received more than 20 comments that expressly addressed this question. 92
91 F

Many of the sentiments reflected in these comments were also echoed by several
commenters that presented oral statements in response to the Notice of Informal
Hearing. 93A few commenters arguing for the importance of holding intermediaries
92 F

accountable for enabling or promoting impersonation schemes encouraged the
Commission to finalize the text of the proposed provision without modification. 94 These
93 F

commenters specifically argued that finalizing the proposed § 461.4 could help to combat
impersonation schemes perpetrated by foreign-based scammers—beyond U.S. court
jurisdiction—that obtain services from U.S.-based instrumentalities, such as payment
processors and internet service providers. 95
94 F

20

Addressing means and instrumentality liability, both the AFPF and MacLeod
reiterated their concerns referenced in Section III.C, regarding section 18’s specificity
requirements, due process notice, free speech, and conformity to the FTC’s Deception
Policy Statement. 96 Most commenters who addressed Question 6 expressed support for
95F

means and instrumentalities liability, but with some concern or suggested modifications.
Some supportive commenters cautioned that the proposed means and instrumentalities
provision could be read too broadly. 97 Others expressed the concern that without a
9 6F

specific scienter or knowledge requirement, the proposed rule provision runs the risk of
imposing strict liability against innocent and unwitting third-party providers of services
or products. 98 Accordingly, several commenters urged the Commission to clarify the
9 7F

scope of means and instrumentalities liability or explicitly include a specific knowledge
requirement in the final rule provision. 99
98 F

For example, the Consumer Technology Association (“CTA”), a trade association
representing the U.S. consumer technology industry, stated that the Commission’s
explanation and examples of the “means and instrumentalities” provision in the NPRM
seem to limit its applicability, but such limitation “is not squarely reflected in the text of
the proposed rule.” 100 The CTA therefore urged the FTC to clarify that “means and
9 9F

instrumentalities” liability applies only “to entities that have knowledge or consciously
avoid knowing that they are making representations being used to commit impersonation
fraud.” USTelecom, a trade association representing the broadband technology industry,
argued that a discrepancy exists between the case law, the NPRM’s discussion of means
and instrumentality liability, and the proposed rule provision. It urged the Commission to
“adjust the proposed language in § 461.4 to codify the requirement that the person has

21

knowledge or reason to expect it is providing the means and instrumentalities . . .”
(emphasis in original). 101 Similarly, the American Bar Association Section of Intellectual
100F

Property Law suggested that the Commission “explicitly include [in § 461.4] the
language referenced in the [NPRM] from Shell Oil Co., 128 F.T.C. 749 (1999)—acting
with ‘knowledge or reason to expect that consumers may possibly be deceived as a
result.’” 102
101F

Other commenters argued that inclusion of a scienter requirement is a necessary
but not sufficient modification of the proposed language to impose means and
instrumentalities liability. For example, the Internet & Television Association
(‘‘NCTA’’), a trade association for the United States cable television industry, argued
that such “liability requires both providing deceptive means and instrumentalities, e.g.,
providing false or misleading claims or counterfeit items, and actual knowledge that the
deceptive representations or goods will be used to commit impersonation violations”
(emphasis in original). 103 Likewise, M3AAWG advocated that, in addition to a
102F

“knowledge or reason-to-know test,” primary liability under a revised § 461.4 should also
require that the provision of such means and instrumentalities be done willfully or in bad
faith, and with clear intent and specific knowledge. 104
103F

A few commenters urged the Commission to adopt a final rule that explicitly
recognizes specific or defined “means and instrumentality” violations perpetrated in
connection with impersonation frauds, such as the use of legal process documents 105 or
104F

manipulated media technologies (i.e., deepfakes) 106 or failure to disclose WHOIS
105F

data. 107
106F

22

Based upon the comments received on the proposed provision regarding means and
instrumentalities, the Commission has decided that this specific provision warrants
further analysis and consideration; thus, the Commission has decided not to finalize
proposed § 461.4. The Commission is not aware of any other rule, whether issued
pursuant to section 18 or APA rulemaking authority, that identifies a means and
instrumentalities violation. The Commission notes that it has used means and
instrumentalities allegations as a type of deception to establish primary liability in the
absence of privity between the defendant and the deceived persons, albeit rarely, in
connection with matters that involve impersonation. 108 Pending further analysis and
107F

consideration, the Commission declines to adopt proposed § 461.4 at this time. The
Commission is still considering the provision regarding means and instrumentalities, as
well as issues related to the impersonation of individuals or entities other than
governments and business in interstate commerce, and is requesting public comment
through a Supplemental Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“SNPRM”), published
elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register.
E. Inclusion of Prohibition Against Impersonating Nonprofits
In response to the ANPR, the Commission received a number of comments that
urged the Commission to include ‘‘nonprofit” entities in the proposed rule’s definition of
businesses that can be impersonated. 109 The Commission agreed with these comments,
108F

and consequently, defined a ‘‘business’’ that may be impersonated to include nonprofits
in § 461.1 of the proposed rule, notwithstanding the fact that the Commission is
authorized to sue a corporation only when the corporation is ‘‘organized to carry on
business for its own profit or that of its members.” 110 As the Commission explained in
109F

23

the NPRM, the reason for doing so is because for profit businesses may impersonate
nonprofit business. 111 In Question 7 of the NPRM, the Commission solicited comment
11 0F

regarding whether any final rule should keep the prohibition against impersonating
nonprofit organizations. 112 The Commission received more than a dozen comments that
11 1F

specifically addressed this question, and each of them expressed support for a final rule
keeping the prohibition against impersonating nonprofits. 113 None of the comments
11 2F

responding to the NPRM or Notice of Hearing opposed doing so. The vast majority of
commenters who addressed this question were themselves nonprofit organizations
operating as trade associations, and referenced their own experience with impersonation
frauds in support of a final rule keeping the prohibition against impersonating
nonprofits. 114 Several commenters expressed the view that nonprofits are often the
11 3F

subject of impersonation scams in the same way as for profit businesses and government
agencies. 115 Other commenters asserted that impersonation of nonprofits could be
114F

uniquely harmful because bad actors “prey[] on the goodwill of individuals attempting to
make donations, and misappropriate[] those donations to corrupt private actions.” 116
11 5F

Some commenters noted that nonprofits are particularly susceptible to being
impersonated in scams involving affiliation or endorsement claims because nonprofits
often offer awards or seals of approval. 117
11 6F

Finally, two commenters cited trademark law in support of keeping nonprofits in
the definition of business and a final rule that includes the prohibition against
impersonating nonprofits. Specifically, both INTA and the Toy Association stated that
trademark law has “long recognized that the misuse of names of non-profit organizations
can lead to harmful consumer confusion.” 118 In INTA’s and the Toy Association’s view,
117F

24

the same applies with respect to impersonation schemes; thus, the final rule should also
make no distinction between for profit and nonprofit businesses.
Based upon the record, including public comments in response to Question 7 of
the NPRM, the Commission has determined that the final rule will retain the definition of
“business” in § 461.1 that includes nonprofits and the prohibition against impersonating
nonprofit organizations in § 461.3.
F. Inclusion of Individuals or Entities Other Than Government and Business
Impersonators
In the NPRM, the Commission asked whether the proposed rule should be
expanded to address the impersonation of individuals or entities other than governments
and business in interstate commerce. 119 The NPRM identified romance and grandparent
118F

impersonation scams as illustrative, but non-exhaustive, examples of other types of
impersonation fraud, and solicited further comment regarding their prevalence and
impact, and alternative proposals to regulation. Six commenters specifically addressed
these questions, and each of them stated that the Commission should expand the reach of
the proposed rule to extend beyond government and business impersonators. 120 Some
119F

commenters asserted that fraudsters often impersonate individuals in similar ways they
impersonate government and businesses. 121 In support of expanding the rule, several
120F

commenters argued that romance and grandparent impersonation scams were harmful and
prevalent, citing to data from the FTC and other sources showing a steady increase in the
number of consumer reports and median individual losses for such scams. 122 A comment
121F

submitted by a group of students at Rutgers Law School asserted that older consumers are
susceptible to “interpersonal confidence fraud and romance scams” and provided relevant

25

data demonstrating that older consumers may be more likely to fall victim to these kinds
of impersonation than to government impersonation. 123 Several commenters also stated
12 2F

that while the number of reports of these two types of impersonation scams are not as
high as government and business impersonation, they are likely underreported, and that
median individual losses are often higher. 124 The AARP stated that, “[o]f all fraud
12 3F

activity, romance scams and scams impersonating a family member in trouble are the
most insidious, given the emotional devastation that combines with often significant
financial losses.” 125 A joint comment submitted by several consumer and privacy
12 4F

advocacy organizations argued that such evidence “should be sufficient justification” for
the Commission to “add a subsection to proposed Section 461 to cover ‘Impersonation of
Individuals.’” 126
125F

A few commenters discussed the prevalence and harmfulness of other kinds of
impersonation scams as support for expanding the rule beyond government and
businesses to include individuals. For example, the NCTA stated that its member
companies had observed an increase in sophisticated residential IP address scams that
impersonate online subscribers for illegal purposes such as piracy and fraud. 127 NCTA
12 6F

encouraged the Commission to consider a new rule to prohibit impersonation of
individuals through “unauthorized use of an individual’s online credentials, accounts, IP
addresses, and digital networks.” 128 The Recording Industry Association of America
127F

(“RIAA”) described impersonation scams involving offers of NFTs and mobile apps
suggesting affiliation with sound recording artists and phishing scams where third parties
claimed to be a music artist’s manager or producer. 129 RIAA recommended that the
128F

Commission expand the rule to include the following: “[I]t [is] unlawful to falsely pose

26

as or to misrepresent, directly or by implication, affiliation with, including endorsement
or sponsorship by, an individual, for financial gain.” 130
129F

The Rutgers Law Students noted the prevalence of social media, and profiles of
celebrities and influencers in current modes of online communication, arguing that it
would be a “grave oversight” to omit persons with such notable identities from a rule
prohibiting impersonation. 131 The students also argued that individuals are more likely
13 0F

than government agencies or businesses to suffer direct harm to their identities from
impersonation scams and less likely to be able to repair the reputational injuries. 132
131F

Accordingly, they proposed that the Commission add another section to the rule with
language prohibiting the impersonation of “any person” that parallels the language in §§
461.2 and 461.3 prohibiting the impersonation of government and businesses,
respectively. 133 The students further stated that this additional provision “closes a
13 2F

loophole” that proposed §§ 461.2 and 461.3 leave open regarding the impersonation of
former government and business officials. 134 Finally, the students concluded that adding
133F

such a narrowly drafted provision would not burden honest businesses or individuals, and
would benefit consumers because the median individual losses for other kinds of
impersonation frauds are often greater than for government and business
impersonation. 135 Both the students and the NCTA agreed that expanding the proposed
13 4F

rule to prohibit impersonation of individuals would not impact recreational or comedic
impersonations of individuals in television or film. 136
13 5F

Upon consideration of the comments received in response to Question 8 of the
NPRM and all relevant records and data, the Commission is seeking additional public
comment about potentially expanding part 461 to cover impersonation of individuals or

27

entities other than governments and businesses in interstate commerce in a SNPRM
published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register. 137
136F

G. Requiring Domain Name Registrars to Collect, Verify, Maintain, and Disclose
Accurate WHOIS Data
The Commission received several comments that identified the lack of access to
accurate information concerning domain name registrants (commonly known as
“WHOIS” data) as a significant impediment to combatting the use of domain names to
impersonate government and businesses. 138 These commenters expressed support for
137F

expanding the text or scope of the final rule to protect consumers from this increasingly
prevalent impersonation scheme. 139 In particular, a few commenters urged the
138F

Commission to issue a final rule that requires domain name registrars to collect, verify,
maintain, and disclose accurate WHOIS data to the FTC and third-party victims on
request for such information based on credible evidence of impersonation fraud. 140 As
139F

previously noted, the COA argued that the redaction or denial of reasonable access to
WHOIS data is unjustified. 141 Both M3AAWG and APWG also suggested that the
140F

Commission encourage DNS registries or registrars to engage in DNS mitigation and
frequently impersonated entities to participate as “trusted notifiers” to address
fraudulently registered domain names. 142
141F

Because the deceptive use of internet domain names is already covered under the
rule, the Commission declines to adopt commenters’ suggestion that the final rule
expressly reference in the text or accompanying examples the use of domain names in
impersonation schemes. As previously noted in Section III.A, the NPRM’s preamble
contained a list of examples of conduct covered by the prohibition on the impersonation

28

of government and businesses that was intended to be illustrative, not exhaustive. 143
14 2F

Such a comprehensive list would be both impossible and would not provide the trade
regulation rule with the flexibility to accommodate changes in the marketplace and
scammers’ behavior. The Commission finds therefore that the final rule is drafted with
sufficient clarity and flexibility to address the unauthorized use of internet identifiers,
including but not limited to, domain names. Furthermore, the Commission declines to
issue a final rule that imposes affirmative requirements upon domain name registrars
which is beyond the purview of this rulemaking and doing so arguably would place an
impracticable burden upon consumers to know about and verify the trustworthiness of
such WHOIS data.
H. Comments Regarding Limitation of Remedies
A small number of commenters urged the Commission to clarify that any final
rule regarding impersonation would not limit any rights and remedies already available to
businesses and consumers that have been the subject of impersonation. 144 For example,
14 3F

notwithstanding its support of the Commission’s rulemaking to address impersonation,
the American Bar Association Section of Intellectual Property Law asserted that many
government impersonation scams should be referred to the Department of Justice for
criminal prosecution, and therefore, cautioned that any regulatory approach “not dilute
the impetus for a criminal law solution.” 145 Other commenters suggested that the
14 4F

Commission clarify that any final rule is not intended to limit any existing private right of
action or civil remedies. 146 Specifically, the Toy Association and INTA both advocated
145F

that any final rule on impersonation not be interpreted as limiting the rights and remedies
available to trademark owners under the Lanham Act and the Anti-Cybersquatting

29

Consumer Protection Act. INTA further proposed that the Commission issue a
clarification that any final rule is intended only to complement—not expand or contract—
the legal protections available to private parties under the entire body of federal or state
trademark and unfair competition law. 147
14 6F

By issuing the final rule regarding government and business impersonation, the
Commission does not preempt or intend to preempt action in the same area, which is not
inconsistent with this final rule, by any federal, state, municipal, or other local
government. This final rule does not annul or diminish any rights or remedies provided to
consumers or businesses by any federal, state law, municipal ordinance, or other local
regulation, insofar as those rights or remedies are equal to or greater than those provided
by this final rule.
IV. Final Rule
For the reasons described above, the Commission has determined to adopt the
provisions of proposed § 461.1 as initially proposed, and the provisions of §§ 461.2 and
461.3 with clarifying modifications. The Commission declines to finalize proposed §
461.4 at this time.
Specifically, the Commission concludes that the proposed definition of “officer”
is sufficient to cover both government and business representatives, and therefore, need
not be divided into two separate terms. Further, the final rule includes a definition of
“materially”—which has been used in other section 18 rules—to avoid potential
confusion or potential perceived conflict with non-commercial speech. For these same
reasons, the final rule replaces “unlawful” with “unfair or deceptive act or practice” and
adds “materially” and “in or affecting commerce” in §§ 461.2 and 461.3. Such revised

30

language further clarifies that the rule conforms to the well established standards for
deception and unfairness under the FTC Act. Finally, the Commission declines to finalize
the proposed § 461.4 provision regarding means and instrumentalities at this time
because further analysis and consideration is warranted based on the record, including
comments. The Commission is requesting additional public comment on this provision,
and on issues related to the impersonation of individuals or entities other than
governments and business in interstate commerce, through a SNPRM, published
elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register.
V. Paperwork Reduction Act
The Paperwork Reduction Act (“PRA”), 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq., requires federal
agencies to seek and obtain Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) approval before
undertaking a collection of information directed to ten or more persons. In Question 3 of
the NPRM, the Commission asked commenters whether the proposed rule contained a
collection of information. 148 No comments responding to the NPRM or Notice of
14 7F

Hearing addressed this question. While the Commission has revised the rule based on the
comments it received, it has not added any new requirements that would collect
information from the public. Accordingly, the Commission has determined that there are
no new requirements for information collection associated with this final rule.
VI. Regulatory Analysis and Regulatory Flexibility Act Requirements
Under section 22 of the FTC Act, the Commission, when it promulgates a final
rule, must issue a ‘‘final regulatory analysis.’’ 149 The required contents of this final
148F

regulatory analysis are: (1) ‘‘a concise statement of the need for, and the objectives of,
the final rule’’; (2) ‘‘a description of any alternatives to the final rule which were

31

considered by the Commission”; (3) ‘‘an analysis of the projected benefits and any
adverse economic effects and any other effects of the final rule’’; (4) “an explanation of
the reasons for the determination of the Commission that the final rule will attain its
objectives in a manner consistent with applicable law and the reasons the particular
alternative was chosen”; and (5) “a summary of any significant issues raised by the
comments submitted during the public comment period in response to the preliminary
regulatory analysis, and a summary of the assessment by the Commission of such
issues.” 150 Additionally, the Regulatory Flexibility Act (‘‘RFA’’), 5 U.S.C. 601–612,
149F

requires an agency to provide a Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (‘‘FRFA’’) with the
final rule, if any, unless the agency certifies that the rule will not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. 151
15 0F

The NPRM included an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (‘‘IRFA’’) even
though the Commission did not expect that the proposed rule would have a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. 152 The Commission invited
15 1F

public comment on the proposed rule’s effect on small entities to ensure that no
significant impact would be overlooked. 153
152F

The FTC does not expect that the final rule will have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small entities, and this SBP serves as notice to the
Small Business Administration of the agency’s certification of no significant impact. The
final rule imposes no disclosure or recordkeeping requirements. As such, both the
burdens imposed on small entities and the economic impact of the final rule are likely to
be minimal, if any. Furthermore, as noted in the IRFA, the rule does not change the law
regarding the legality of government and business impersonation, which are already

32

prohibited by section 5 of the FTC Act. 154 Although the Commission certifies the final
153F

rule would not, if promulgated, have a significant impact on a substantial number of
small entities, the Commission has determined, nonetheless, it is appropriate to conduct
the following FRFA, 155 which incorporates the Commission’s initial findings, as set forth
154F

in the NPRM, 156 addresses the required contents of the final regulatory analysis, and
155F

describes the steps the Commission has taken in the final rule to minimize its impact on
small entities.
A. Concise Statement of the Need for, and Objectives of, the Final Rule
Based upon the record, including public comments, the Commission is
implementing the rule to expand the remedies available to it to combat government and
business impersonation deception. Throughout this rulemaking proceeding, the
Commission has described how the U.S. Supreme Court decision in AMG Cap. Mgmt.,
LLC v. FTC, 141 S. Ct. 1341, 1352 (2021) overturned how section 13(b) of the FTC Act
had historically been understood for 40 years to provide equitable monetary relief, and
made it significantly more difficult for the Commission to obtain money for injured
consumers. 157 The objective of this final rule is to make available a shorter, faster and
156F

more efficient path for recovery of money for injured consumers directly through federal
court action in Commission enforcement actions involving impersonation of government
or business. 158 Further, the rule would deter illegal impersonation and allow for the
157F

imposition of civil penalties, where appropriate. 159
158F

B. Discussion of Significant Alternatives the Commission Considered That Would
Accomplish the Stated Objectives of the Final Rule and That Would Minimize Any
Significant Economic Impact of the Final Rule on Small Entities

33

Through the NPRM, the Commission requested public comment on what impact
(including costs) will be incurred by existing and future businesses to comply with the
proposed rule, and whether the Commission should consider alternative proposals to the
proposed rule. 160 This information was requested by the Commission to minimize the
15 9F

final rule’s burden on all businesses, including small entities. As explained throughout
this SBP, the Commission has considered the comments and alternatives proposed by
commenters and finds the final rule will not create a significant economic impact on
small entities. 161 Indeed, the type of deception that will be unlawful under the final rule is
160 F

already unlawful under the FTC Act, but the final rule would allow the Commission to
obtain monetary relief more efficiently than it could solely under section 19(a)(2) of the
FTC Act (i.e., without a rule violation). Accordingly, the Commission does not propose
any specific small entity exemption or other significant alternatives.
C. Summary of Significant Issues Raised by the Public Comments in Response to the
Preliminary Regulatory Analysis and IRFA
None of the comments received during the public comment period raised any
significant issues in response to the preliminary regulatory analysis required pursuant to
section 22 of the FTC Act. 162 In the IRFA, however, the Commission sought comment
16 1F

regarding the impact of the proposed rule and any alternatives the Commission should
consider, with a specific focus on the effect of the rule on small entities. In the NPRM,
the Commission reiterated this request for comment in Question 4, asking whether the
proposed rule, if promulgated, would have a significant impact on a substantial number
of small entities. Two commenters that specifically addressed the impact of the proposed
rule on small entities stated it would have a beneficial economic impact by reducing the

34

time and financial burden small entities expend on fighting impersonation frauds. 163 One
16 2F

commenter urged the Commission not to implement a final rule that would require thirdparty providers of government filing services to include extensive disclosures in their
marketing materials, arguing such disclosure requirements could lead to small businesses
declining the offered services and falling out of compliance with government filing
obligations. 164 This commenter, however, did not identify any proposed disclosure
163 F

requirements that were the subject of his concern, nor does the Commission impose any
such disclosure requirements in connection with the final rule. None of the comments
responding to the NPRM or Notice of Hearing disputed the analysis in the IRFA. Finally,
the Small Business Administration did not submit comments.
After reviewing the public comments on the proposed rule, as discussed
throughout this SBP, the Commission concludes the final rule will not unduly burden
small entities. The Commission’s explanation in the IRFA regarding the proposed rule is
true of the final rule—it only constitutes a significant economic impact for small entities
violating existing law, which are not entitled to procedural protections when agencies
consider rulemaking. 165
164F

D. Analysis of Projected Benefits and Adverse Effects of the Final Rule
In the NPRM, the Commission invited public comment and data on any benefits
and costs of proceeding with the rulemaking to inform a final regulatory analysis. 166 In
16 5F

issuing the final rule, the Commission has carefully considered the comments received
and the costs and benefits of each provision. As discussed throughout this SBP, the
Commission believes, and the record demonstrates, the final rule would provide several

35

benefits to consumers, businesses, and competition, and help preserve agency resources,
without imposing any significant adverse effects.
The Commission’s explanation in the IRFA regarding the proposed rule is true of
the final rule—it is difficult to quantify with precision what all its benefits may be, but it
is helpful to begin with the scope of the problem the final rule would address, and then
describe the benefits qualitatively. As discussed in the NPRM, reported consumer losses
due to government impersonation topped $445 million in 2021; 167 and as anticipated,
166F

remained large, and even increased substantially, with total consumer losses of $513
million reported in 2022 and more than $483 million for the first ten months of 2023. 168
167F

Similarly, the annual consumer loss reported due to business impersonation has increased
from $453 million in 2021 to $670 million in 2022. 169 Accordingly, the most significant
16 8F

anticipated benefit of the final rule is that it will allow the Commission to provide
monetary relief to victims of rule violations and seek civil penalties against violators. 170
16 9F

Furthermore, the final rule should reduce economic harm resulting from impersonation
because its potential deterrent effects make it less likely impersonators get to keep their
ill-gotten gains and more likely they must pay civil penalties.
The final rule also would provide the benefit of a shorter path to obtaining
consumer redress because the Commission could directly pursue in federal court
section 19 remedies in government and business impersonation enforcement actions that
do not implicate an existing rule. The availability of more immediate consumer redress in
federal court under section 19 would allow the Commission to reduce the expense of
litigating and minimize the litigation fora and scope. The Commission could then apply

36

the savings of these enforcement resources to investigating and, where the facts warrant,
bringing enforcement actions in additional impersonation matters.
The final rule also would benefit businesses whose brands are harmed by
impersonators. 171 As several commenters have mentioned, a final rule that would allow
170F

the Commission to more efficiently bring enforcement actions against impersonators
would save businesses the time and other resources dedicated to monitoring and
combatting these kinds of deception.
The record is devoid of any evidence suggesting the final rule would cause harm
or adversely impact economic conditions.
E. Description and an Estimate of the Number of Small Entities to Which the Final Rule
Will Apply, or Explanation Why No Estimate Is Available
Small entities engaging in the impersonation of government and business
potentially may be found across a variety of industries and economic sectors, but industry
and sector data do not identify entities by such conduct. Accordingly, it is not possible to
estimate the number of small entities to which the final rule will apply. However, because
the Commission finds the final rule will not impose any recordkeeping or other
compliance costs on covered entities, the Commission concludes the final rule will not
have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities, notwithstanding the
lack of data on how many small entities will be covered by the final rule.
F. Description of the Projected Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance
Requirements of the Final Rule, Including an Estimate of the Classes of Small Entities
That Will Be Subject to the Requirements of the Final Rule and the Type of Professional
Skills That Will Be Necessary to Implement the Final Rule

37

The final rule does not have any reporting or recordkeeping requirements. 172 As
17 1F

explained previously, the final rule would apply to no small entities other than small
entities violating existing law, and therefore, no classes of small entities will be subject to
the requirements of the final rule. Finally, no professional skills are necessary for
compliance with the final rule other than honesty and integrity.
G. An Explanation of the Reasons for the Determination of the Commission that the Final
Rule Will Attain Its Objectives in a Manner Consistent with Applicable Law and the
Reasons the Particular Alternative Was Chosen
The Commission’s primary objective in commencing this rulemaking was to
expand the remedies available to it in combatting two prevalent categories of
impersonation scams most frequently reported by consumers—government
impersonators and business impersonators. As explained throughout this SBP, based
upon the record, including public comments, the Commission finds the final rule will
attain this objective in a manner consistent with applicable law.
The final rule is straightforward and defines with specificity acts or practices that
are unfair or deceptive in or affecting commerce within the meaning of section 5(a)(1) of
the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. 45(a)(1). It also avoids novelty by borrowing from existing rules
and statutory definitions. 173 At the same time, the final rule is drafted with sufficient
17 2F

flexibility to address the various types of conduct covered by the prohibition on the
impersonation of government and businesses. Furthermore, this rulemaking has provided
ample transparency and opportunity for public participation in accordance with the
underlying statutory requirements of section 18 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. 57a, the

38

Administrative Procedure Act, and Part 1, subpart B of the Commission’s Rules of
Practice. 174
17 3F

VII. Congressional Review Act
Pursuant to the Congressional Review Act (5 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), the Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs has designated this rule as not a “major rule,” as
defined by 5 U.S.C. 804(2).
List of Subjects in 16 CFR Part 461
Consumer protection, Impersonation, Trade Practices.
For the reasons set forth above, the Federal Trade Commission amends 16 CFR
Chapter I by adding part 461 to read as follows:
Part 461—Rule on Impersonation of Government and Businesses
Sec.
461.1 Definitions.
461.2 Impersonation of Government Prohibited.
461.3 Impersonation of Businesses Prohibited.
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 41 through 58.
§ 461.1 Definitions.
As used in this part:
Business means a corporation, partnership, association, or any other entity that provides
goods or services, including not-for-profit entities.
Government includes federal, state, local, and tribal governments as well as agencies and
departments thereof.
Materially means likely to affect a person’s choice of, or conduct regarding, goods or
services.
Officer includes executives, officials, employees, and agents.
39

§ 461.2 Impersonation of Government Prohibited.
It is a violation of this part, and an unfair or deceptive act or practice to:
(a) materially and falsely pose as, directly or by implication, a government entity or
officer thereof, in or affecting commerce as commerce is defined in the Federal
Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 44); or
(b) materially misrepresent, directly or by implication, affiliation with, including
endorsement or sponsorship by, a government entity or officer thereof, in or
affecting commerce as commerce is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act
(15 U.S.C. 44).
§ 461.3 Impersonation of Businesses Prohibited.
It is a violation of this part, and an unfair or deceptive act or practice to:
(a) materially and falsely pose as, directly or by implication, a business or officer
thereof, in or affecting commerce as commerce is defined in the Federal Trade
Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 44); or
(b) materially misrepresent, directly or by implication, affiliation with, including
endorsement or sponsorship by, a business or officer thereof, in or affecting
commerce as commerce is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act (15
U.S.C. 44).

By direction of the Commission.
April J. Tabor,
Secretary.

40

Fed. Trade Comm’n, Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: Trade Regulation Rule on Impersonation
of Government and Businesses, 86 FR 72901 (Dec. 23, 2021),
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/12/23/2021-27731/trade-regulation-rule-onimpersonation-of-government-and-businesses.
2
See id. at 72904.
3
Those included, among others, numerous reports of government impersonation scams reported to federal
agencies as reflected in the following public announcements. On March 7, 2022, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation issued a Public Service Announcement ‘‘warning the public of ongoing widespread fraud
schemes in which scammers impersonate law enforcement or government officials in attempts to extort
money or steal personally identifiable information.’’ Similarly, on May 20, 2022, multiple federal law
enforcement agencies issued a scam alert spearheaded by the Social Security Administration’s Office of the
Inspector General warning the public of government impersonation scams involving the reproduction of
federal law enforcement credentials and badges. On June 3, 2022, the Commission issued a press release
noting that in some impersonation scams, fraudsters have instructed consumers to convert cash into
cryptocurrency under false threats of government investigations or fraud. See Fed. Trade Comm’n, Notice
of Proposed Rulemaking: Trade Regulation Rule on Impersonation of Government and Businesses, 87 FR
62741, 62742 (Oct. 17, 2022), https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/10/17/2022-21289/traderegulation-rule-onimpersonation-of-government-and-businesses.
4
See id. at 62741-51.
5
See id. at 62741-42.
6
Id. at 62750.
7
See Fed. Trade Comm’n, Trade Regulation Rule on Impersonation of Government and Businesses,
https://www.regulations.gov/docket/FTC-2022-0064/comments.
8
Cindy L. Brown and Raye Mitchell, Cmt. on NPRM at 9 (Dec. 19, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0077 (“Brown Cmt.”); William MacLeod, Cmt. on
NPRM at 2 (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0078 (“MacLeod
Cmt.”).
9
Fed. Trade Comm’n, Initial Notice of Informal Hearing: Trade Regulation Rule on Impersonation of
Government and Businesses, 88 FR 19024 (Mar. 30, 2023),
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/03/30/2023-06537/trade-regulation-rule-onimpersonation-of-government-and-businesses. This Initial Notice of Informal Hearing also served as the
Final Notice of Informal Hearing. The Commission determined William MacLeod’s comment in response
to the NPRM represented an “adequate request” for such an informal hearing. The comment from Cindy
Brown explicitly requesting to make a presentation at an informal hearing also represented an “adequate
request” triggering the Commission’s obligation to hold an informal hearing, but was inadvertently omitted
from inclusion in the Initial Notice of Informal Hearing.
10
Because this informal hearing was the first held in several decades, the Commission allowed interested
parties to request the opportunity to make an oral comment in response to the Notice of Informal Hearing
as well as the NPRM. However, the Commission noted that in the future it may limit oral statements to
those who requested to make an oral statement in response to the NPRM, as provided for in the Rules of
Practice. Id. at 19025 n.24.
11
Although Cindy Brown did not submit a request to make an oral statement in response to the Notice of
Hearing, she was permitted to make an oral statement at the hearing based upon her prior comment in
response to the NPRM in which she explicitly stated her interest “in making a presentation at an informal
hearing.”
12
The Notice of Informal Public Hearing comments addressing specific provisions of the rule or questions
in the NPRM soliciting public comment are discussed in Section III within the substantive discussions on
the relevant provisions.
13
5 U.S.C. 551 et seq.; 16 CFR 1.7-1.20.
14
Rules of Practice, 16 CFR 1.14(a)(1)(i)-(iii). In addition, in accordance with 16 CFR 1.14(a)(2), the
regulatory analysis is provided in Section VI of this SBP.
1

41

ANPR, 86 FR at 72901; see also Fed. Trade Comm’n, Explore Government Imposter Scams, TABLEAU
PUBLIC,
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/federal.trade.commission/viz/GovernmentImposter/Infographic.
16
NPRM, 87 FR at 62742.
17
Id. at 62742-46.
18
In re Cliffdale Assocs., Inc., 103 F.T.C. 110, 174 (1984); see also In re POM Wonderful LLC, No. 9344,
2013 WL 268926, at *18 (Jan. 16, 2013).
19
ANPR, 86 FR at 72901.
20
NPRM, 87 FR at 62746-47.
21
ANPR, 86 FR at 72903-04; see also NPRM, 87 FR at 62748-49.
22
See AMG Cap. Mgmt., LLC v. FTC, 141 S. Ct. 1341, 1352 (2021).
23
See 15 U.S.C. 57b(a) and (b); see also NPRM, 87 FR at 62746 (discussing AMG Cap. Mgmt.).
24
The Commission can recover money for consumers directly through a federal court action or obtain civil
penalties directly from a federal court when the Rule has been violated. Without the Rule, the path to
monetary relief is longer, and requires the Commission to first issue a final cease-and-desist order—which
might not become final until after the resolution of any resulting appeal. Then, to recover money for
consumers, the Commission must prove that the violator engaged in fraudulent or dishonest conduct in a
second action in federal court. See 15 U.S.C. 57b(a) and (b).
25
See section 5(m)(1)(A) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. 45(m)(1)(A) (providing that violators of a trade
regulation rule “with actual knowledge or knowledge fairly implied on the basis of objective circumstances
that such act is unfair or deceptive and is prohibited by such rule” are liable for civil penalties for each
violation). In addition, any entity or person who violates such a rule (irrespective of the state of knowledge)
is liable for injury caused to consumers by the rule violation. The Commission may pursue such recovery in
a suit for consumer redress under section 19 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. 57b.
26
NPRM, 87 FR at 62749.
27
Id.
28
https://www.regulations.gov/document/FTC-2021-0077-0001/comment.
29
https://www.regulations.gov/docket/FTC-2023-0030/comments.
30
NPRM, 87 FR at 62750.
31
Id.
32
Id., Question 3 (Does the proposed rule contain a collection of information?) and Question 4 (Would the
proposed rule, if promulgated, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small
entities? If so, how could it be modified to avoid a significant economic impact on a substantial number of
small entities?)
33
NPRM, 87 FR at 62750.
34
See, e.g., Anonymous, Cmt. on NPRM (Nov. 3, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC2022-0064-0011 (describing impersonation of accounts payable in medical device industry); Bernadette
Padilla, Cmt. on NPRM (Nov. 8, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0014
(describing police impersonation scam involving stolen PII); Anonymous Meeting Planner, Cmt. on NPRM
(Dec. 6, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0030 (describing attendee list and
hotel reservation impersonation scams); California IT in Education, Cmt. on NPRM (Nov. 9, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0034 (describing attendee list impersonation scam);
Illinois Landscape Contractors Association, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 12, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0038 (describing attendee list and hotel reservation
impersonation scams).
35
See e.g., Salina Maddox, Cmt. on NPRM (Oct. 22, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC2022-0064-0003 (spam calls); Tatiana Alvarez, Cmt. on NPRM (Nov. 22, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0008 (Romanian mob scam); Tinee Carraker, Cmt.
on NPRM (Nov. 4, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0012 (foreclosure
scam); Susan Rounsley, Cmt. on NPRM (Nov. 6, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-20220064-0013 (violations of Do Not Call requirements).
36
See, e.g., Suhkvir Singh/Rutgers Law School Students, Cmt. on NPRM (Nov. 22, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0019 (“Rutgers Law Students/Singh Cmt.”); AIM,
the European Brands Association, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 13, 2022),
15

42

https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0041 (“AIM Cmt.”); The Messaging Malware
Mobile Anti-Abuse Working Group, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 15, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0051 (“M3AAWG Cmt.”); The International
Trademark Association, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC2022-0064-0054 (“INTA Cmt.”); Electronic Privacy Information Center, National Consumer Law Center,
National Consumers League, Consumer Action, Consumer Federation of America, National Association of
Consumer Advocates, and U.S. PIRG, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 16, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0070 (“EPIC Cmt.”); Recording Industry
Association of America, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC2022-0064-0064 (“RIAA Cmt.”).
37
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Cmt. on NPRM at 2-3 (Dec. 2, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0026 (“USPTO Cmt.”); INTA Cmt. on NPRM;
United States Copyright Office, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 16, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0067 (“USCO Cmt.”); The Toy Association, Inc.,
Cmt. on NPRM at 2 (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0069 (“Toy
Cmt.”); Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 16, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0066 (“CTIA Cmt.”); Marine Retailers Association
of the Americas, National Marine Manufacturers Association, National RV Dealers Association, Cmt. on
NPRM (Dec. 19, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0076 (“MRAA Cmt.”).
38
See, e.g., USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 2-3; USCO Cmt. on NPRM at 2; Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 2; CTIA
Cmt. on NPRM at 3; MRAA Cmt. on NPRM at 4. See also supra, note 25.
39
USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 2-3.
40
MRAA Cmt. on NPRM at 4.
41
USCO Cmt. on NPRM at 2-3.
42
Id.; USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 2.
43
CTIA Cmt. on NPRM at 5, 7.
44
Somos, Inc., Cmt. on NPRM at 2-3 (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-20220064-0068 (“Somos Cmt.”).
45
In explaining the scope of the proposed rule, the NPRM provided an illustrative, but non-exhaustive, list
of unlawful conduct that would be covered by the prohibitions against impersonating government and
businesses. NPRM, 87 FR at 62746-47. That list merely provides examples as it would be impracticable to
list all possible violative conduct.
46
16 CFR 310.4(a)(8).
47
USTelecom Cmt. on NPRM at 2; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 3-4; RIAA Cmt. on NPRM at 3; AntiPhishing Working Group, Cmt. on NPRM at 1-2 (Dec. 16, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0073 (“APWG Cmt.”),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0073 (“APWG Cmt.”); Coalition for Online
Accountability, Cmt. on NPRM at 1-3 (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-20220064-0074 (“COA Cmt.”); INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 8-10; Coalition for a Secure & Transparent Internet,
Cmt. on NPRM at 1 (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0065 (“CSTI
Cmt.”).
48
Id.
49
M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 3-4; RIAA Cmt. on NPRM at 3-4; AIM Cmt. on NPRM at 1; COA Cmt.
on NPRM at 1-3; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 8-10.
50
COA Cmt. on NPRM at 2.
51
M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 3-4; APWG Cmt. on NPRM at 1-2; see also APWG, Cmt. on Informal
Hearing at 1-2 (Apr. 14, 2023), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2023-0030-0027 (“APWG IH
Cmt.”).
52
See NPRM, 87 FR at 62746-47. The example of voice cloning—a relatively new technology—
emphasizes the need for an illustrative, but non-exhaustive, list of unlawful conduct. Audio deepfakes,
including voice cloning, are generated, edited, or synthesized by artificial intelligence, or “AI,” to create
fake audio that seems real. See Khanjani, et. al., How Deep are the Fakes? Focusing on Audio Deepfake: A
Survey, available at https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/2111/2111.14203.pdf.

43

Americans for Prosperity Foundation, Cmt. on NPRM at 1-2 (Dec. 16, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0062 (“AFPF Cmt.”).
54
Id. at 1.
55
Pub. L. No. 93-637, 88 Stat. 2183 (1975).
56
ANPR, 86 FR at 72904.
57
Id.
58
NPRM, 87 FR at 62750, Question 2.
59
USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 3-9; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 6-9; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 3-5; Toy
Cmt. on NPRM at 3-5; USCO Cmt. on NPRM at 3-7; MRAA Cmt. on NPRM at 2-4.
60
USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 3-9; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 6-9; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 3-5; Toy
Cmt. on NPRM at 3-5; USCO Cmt. on NPRM at 3-7; MRAA Cmt. on NPRM at 2-4.
61
Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 3-5.
62
USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 3-9; USCO Cmt. on NPRM at 3-4;
63
INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 3; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 7.
64
M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 9.
65
Id.
66
Id.
67
NPRM, 87 FR at 62750, Question 5.
68
USCO Cmt. on NPRM at 8; USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 10; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 6-7; M3AAWG
Cmt. on NPRM at 9; MacLeod Cmt. on NPRM at 1-2; AFPF Cmt. on NPRM at 3-6.
69
NetChoice Cmt. on NPRM at 2; Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 2; ZoomInfo Technologies LLC, Cmt. on NPRM
at 1-2 (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0079 (“Zoom NPRM
Cmt.”).
70
USCO Cmt. on NPRM at 8; USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 10.
71
USCO Cmt. on NPRM at 8.
72
USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 10.
73
Id. at 9-10.
74
MacLeod Cmt. on NPRM at 2; AFPF Cmt. on NPRM at 3; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 9.
75
M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 2; NetChoice Cmt. on NPRM at 2; Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 2; AFPF Cmt.
on NPRM at 2, 4; Zoom Cmt. on NPRM at 1; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 5-6; William MacLeod, Cmt. on
Informal Hearing at 5-7 (Apr. 14, 2023), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2023-0030-0019
(“MacLeod IH Cmt.”).
76
AFPF Cmt. on NPRM at 2, 4; see also MacLeod IH Cmt. at 2.
77
AFPF Cmt. on NPRM at 3, 4. M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 2; NetChoice Cmt. on NPRM at 2; INTA
Cmt. on NPRM at 5-6; Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 2; Zoom Cmt. on NPRM at 1; MacLeod IH Cmt. at 5-7.
78
AFPF Cmt. on NPRM at 2, 6.
79
NetChoice Cmt. on NPRM at 2; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 3.
80
AFPF Cmt. on NPRM at 4; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 5-6; Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 2; Zoom Cmt. on
NPRM at 1; MacLeod IH Cmt. at 5.
81
MacLeod IH Cmt. at 1; see also MacLeod Cmt. on NPRM at 1.
82
MacLeod IH Cmt. at 2.
83
Id. at 3.
84
Id. at 3.
85
AFPF Cmt. on NPRM at 3-4.
86
Id. at 3, 5-6.
87
M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 9.
88
Id. at 1, 5.
89
AFPF Cmt. on NPRM at 5.
90
See 15 U.S.C. 45(m)(1)(A).
91
See Cent. Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Pub. Serv. Comm’n of N.Y., 447 U.S. 557, 563-64 (1980)
(“[T]here can be no constitutional objection to the suppression of commercial messages that do not
accurately inform the public about lawful activity. The government may ban forms of communication more
likely to deceive the public than to inform it, or commercial speech related to illegal activity.”) (citations
omitted); see also Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel, 471 U.S. 626, 638 (1985) (holding it is “well
53

44

settled” that “[t]he States and the Federal Government are free to prevent the dissemination of commercial
speech that is false, deceptive, or misleading”).
92
USPTO Cmt. on NPRM; Anonymous, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 9, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0033 (“0033 Cmt.”); AIM Cmt. on NPRM; Erik M.
Pelton & Associates, PLLC, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 14, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC2022-0064-0045; NetChoice Cmt. on NPRM; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM; Consumer Technology
Association, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0073
(“CTA Cmt.”); NCTA - The Internet and Television Association, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 16, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0071 (“NCTA Cmt.”); ASAE Cmt. on NPRM;
INTA Cmt. on NPRM; Somos Cmt. on NPRM; CTIA Cmt. on NPRM; USCO Cmt. on NPRM;
USTelecom Cmt. on NPRM; American Society of Association Executives, Center for Exhibition Industry
Research
Destinations International, Exhibition Services & Contractors Association, Exhibitions & Conferences
Alliance, Experiential Designers + Producers Association, International Association of Exhibitions &
Events, International Association of Venue Managers, PCMA, Society of Independent Show Organizers,
UFI, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0060 (“ECA
Cmt.”); RIAA Cmt. on NPRM; American Bar Association Section of Intellectual Property Law, Cmt. on
NPRM at 3 (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0061 (“ABA-IPL
Cmt.”); AFPF Cmt. on NPRM; Zoom Cmt. on NPRM; American Bankers Association, ACA International,
American Association of Healthcare Administrative Management, Credit Union National Association,
Mortgage Bankers Association National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions (the Associations),
Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0080 (“Assocns.
Cmt.”); COA Cmt. on NPRM; MacLeod Cmt. on NPRM; Brown Cmt. on NPRM.
93
A copy of the transcript of the May 4, 2023 Informal Hearing is available at
https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/impersonationruleinformalhearingtranscript.pdf. References
to the transcript from the May 4, 2023 Informal Hearing are cited herein as: Name of commenter, May
2023 Tr at page no. (e.g., Doe, May 2023 Tr at #); see CTA, May 2023 Tr at 16; MacLeod, May 2023 Tr at
27; USTelecom, May 2023 Tr at 30; Chilson, May 2023 Tr at 34; VON, May 2023 Tr at 36; American
Bankers Association (ABA), May 2023 Tr at 39-40; INCOMPAS, May 2023 Tr at 42, 44; NCTA, May
2023 Tr at 51-52.
94
USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 10; USCO Cmt. on NPRM at 8; RIAA Cmt. on NPRM at 3; ABA, May 2023
Tr at 39-40.
95
USPTO Cmt. on NPRM at 10; USCO Cmt. on NPRM at 8; RIAA Cmt. on NPRM at 3; ABA, May 2023
Tr at 39-40.
96
AFPF Cmt. on NPRM at 3-5; MacLeod IH Cmt. at 6-7; McLeod, May 2023 Tr at 27.
97
0033 Cmt. on NPRM; ABA-IPL Cmt. on NPRM at 2; Zoom Cmt. on NPRM at 1.
98
ABA-IPL Cmt. on NPRM at 1-2; NetChoice Cmt. on NPRM at 2; USTelecom Cmt. on NPRM at 2; see
also CTA, May 2023 Tr at 16; VON, May 2023 Tr at 36; ABA, May 2023 Tr at 39-40; INCOMPAS, May
2023 Tr at 42.
99
NetChoice Cmt. on NPRM at 2; CTA Cmt. on NPRM; American Society of Association Executives,
Cmt. on NPRM at 1 (Dec. 16, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0057 (“ASAE
Cmt.”); INTA Cmt. on NPRM; Somos Cmt. on NPRM; CTIA Cmt. on NPRM at 7; USTelecom Cmt. on
NPRM at 2; ECA Cmt. on NPRM at 3; ABA-IPL Cmt. on NPRM at 3; Zoom Cmt. on NPRM at 2; Cmt. on
NPRM at 3; see also CTA, May 2023 Tr at 16; MacLeod, May 2023 Tr at 27; USTelecom, May 2023 Tr at
30; Chilson, May 2023 Tr at 34; VON, May 2023 Tr at 36; INCOMPAS, May 2023 Tr at 42, 44; NCTA,
May 2023 Tr at 51-52.
100
CTA Cmt. on NPRM at 7.
101
USTelecom Cmt. on NPRM at 2.
102
ABA-IPL Cmt. on NPRM at 3.
103
NCTA Cmt. on NPRM at 2.
104
M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 10.
105
Brown Cmt. on NPRM at 8.
106
M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 3.

45

COA Cmt. on NPRM at 3; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 4-5. “WHOIS data” is a commonly used
Internet record listing that identifies who owns a domain and how to get in contact with them.
108
See, e.g., Compl. at 3–5 & Ex. H, FTC v. Moore, No. 5:18–cv–01960 (C.D. Cal. filed Sept. 13, 2018)
(alleging that a seller of variety of fake but genuine-looking financial documents provided to others the
means and instrumentalities with which to make misrepresentations regarding a person’s identity).
109
NPRM, 87 FR at 62746.
110
Id. at 62751; see also 15 U.S.C. 44.
111
NPRM, 87 FR at 62747.
112
Id. at 62750.
113
Minnesota Nursery & Landscape Association, Cmt. on NPRM at 2 (Dec. 2, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0027; Louise Nemmers, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 5,
2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0028; California Landscape Contractors
Association, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 6, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0029;
Outdoor Power Equipment Institute, Cmt. on NPRM at 2 (Dec. 7, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0032; AIM Cmt. on NPRM at 2; AARP, Cmt. on
NPRM (Dec. 14, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0043 (“AARP Cmt.”);
Minnesota Municipal Utilities Association, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 14, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0048; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 10; CTA Cmt.
on NPRM; ASAE Cmt. on NPRM; INTA Cmt. on NPRM; Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 6; RIAA Cmt. on
NPRM at 2; National Association of Broadcasters, Cmt. on NPRM (Dec. 19, 2022),
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2022-0064-0075; MRAA Cmt. on NPRM at 4.
114
See, e.g., Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 6; MRAA Cmt. on NPRM at 4; AARP Cmt. at 2; CTA Cmt. on NPRM
at 1; ASAE Cmt. on NPRM; RIAA Cmt. on NPRM at 1; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 2.
115
AIM Cmt. on NPRM at 2; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 10; CTA Cmt. on NPRM at 1.
116
Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 6; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 6.
117
Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 6; RIAA Cmt. on NPRM at 3.
118
INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 6; Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 6.
119
NPRM, 87 FR at 62750.
120
Rutgers Law Students/Singh Cmt. on NPRM; AIM Cmt. on NPRM; AARP Cmt. on NPRM; NCTA
Cmt. on NPRM; EPIC Cmt. on NPRM; RIAA Cmt. on NPRM.
121
AIM Cmt. on NPRM at 2; Rutgers Law Students/Singh Cmt. on NPRM at 1.
122
Rutgers Law Students/Singh Cmt. on NPRM at 1-2; AARP Cmt. on NPRM at 2; EPIC Cmt. on NPRM
at 5.
123
Rutgers Law Students/Singh Cmt. on NPRM at 1-2.
124
Rutgers Law Students/Singh Cmt. on NPRM at 2-4; AARP Cmt. on NPRM at 1-2; EPIC Cmt. on
NPRM at 4-5.
125
AARP Cmt. on NPRM at 2.
126
EPIC Cmt. on NPRM at 5.
127
NCTA Cmt. on NPRM at 3, 8.
128
Id.
RIAA Cmt. on NPRM at 3.
130
Id. at 2.
131
Rutgers Law Students/Singh Cmt. on NPRM at 2.
132
Id.
133
Id. at 3.
134
Id.
135
Id. at 3-4.
136
Id.; NCTA Cmt. on NPRM at 8, n. 16.
137
The Commission also is exploring other tools to address the fake endorsement concerns raised by the
RIAA and Rutgers Law School Students. Specifically, in the Commission’s proposed Rule on the Use of
Consumer Reviews and Testimonials, § 465.2 would prohibit businesses from purchasing a consumer
review, or from disseminating or causing the dissemination of a consumer testimonial or celebrity
testimonial when the business knew or should have known it was false or fake. See Fed. Trade Comm’n,
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: Trade Regulation Rule on the Use of Consumer Reviews and
107

46

Testimonials, 88 FR 49364, 49391 (Jul. 31, 2023),
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/07/31/2023-15581/trade-regulation-rule-on-the-use-ofconsumer-reviews-and-testimonials#sectno-reference-465.2.
138
USTelecom Cmt. on NPRM at 2; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 3-4; RIAA Cmt. on NPRM at 3; APWG
Cmt. on NPRM; COA Cmt. on NPRM at 1-3; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 8-10; CSTI Cmt. on NPRM at 1.
139
Id.
140
M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 3-4; RIAA Cmt. on NPRM at 3-4; AIM Cmt. on NPRM at 1; COA Cmt.
on NPRM at 1-3; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 8-10.
141
COA Cmt. on NPRM at 2.
142
M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 3-4; APWG Cmt. on NPRM at 1-2; see also APWG, Cmt. on Informal
Hearing at 1-2 (Apr. 14, 2023), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC-2023-0030-0027 (“APWG IH
Cmt.”).
143
See also supra, note 52.
144
Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 2; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 2; ABA-IPL Cmt. on NPRM at 3; INTA Cmt.
on NPRM at 2.
145
ABA-IPL Cmt. on NPRM at 3.
146
Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 2; M3AAWG Cmt. on NPRM at 2; INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 2.
147
INTA Cmt. on NPRM at 6-7.
148
NPRM, 87 FR at 62750.
149
See 15 U.S.C. 57b–3(b)(2).
150
15 U.S.C. 57b–3(b)(2)(A).
151
See 5 U.S.C. 603–605; see also section 22(b) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. 57b-3(b).
152
NPRM, 87 FR at 62749-50; see also 5 U.S.C. 603.
153
NPRM, 87 FR at 62750.
154
NPRM, 87 FR at 62749.
155
See 15 U.S.C. 57b-3(b)(3)(A)(ii) (“In order to avoid duplication or waste, the Commission is authorized
to . . . whenever appropriate, incorporate any data or analysis contained in a regulatory analysis issued
under this subsection in the statement of basis and purpose.”).
156
NPRM, 87 FR at 62749-50.
157
See ANPR, 86 FR at 72901 & n.24 (discussing AMG Cap. Mgmt.); NPRM, 87 FR at 62746 (same).
158
See ANPR, 86 FR at 72901 & n.24; NPRM, 87 FR at 62746; see also 15 U.S.C. 57b(a) and (b).
159
See 15 U.S.C. 45(m)(1)(A).
160
NPRM, 87 FR at 62750.
161
Only one commenter suggested an alternative to regulation, which the Commission declines to adopt for
the reasons previously stated in Section III.B.
162
See supra note 161.
163
Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 5-6; MRAA Cmt. on NPRM at 4.
164
Robert Kamerschen, Cmt. on NPRM at 2 (Nov. 30, 2022), https://www.regulations.gov/comment/FTC2022-0064-0023.
165
See NPRM, 87 FR at 62750.
166
NPRM, 87 FR at 62748.
167
Id.
168
See Fed. Trade Comm’n, Explore Government Imposter Scams, TABLEAU PUBLIC,
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/federal.trade.commission/viz/FraudReports/SubcategoriesOverTime
(last visited December 21, 2023).
169
Id.
170
See 15 U.S.C. Secs. 45(m)(1)(A) and 57b.
171
See Toy Cmt. on NPRM at 5-6; MRAA Cmt. on NPRM at 4; see also NPRM, 87 FR at 62749.
172
NPRM, 87 FR at 62750.
173
See, e.g., TSR, 16 CFR 310.3(a)(2)(vii); R-Value Rule, 16 CFR 460.21; Regulation O (Mortgage
Assistance Relief Services), 12 CFR 1015.3(b)(3).
174
5 U.S.C. 551 et seq.; 16 CFR 1.7 through 1.20.

47

